Rajeev Choudhary @ Rejeev Kumar vs State on 23 January, 2019

Petitioner in Crl.Rev.Pet.1052/2018, i.e., Inspector Yashvir Singh Tyagi impugns order dated 26.10.2018 to the extent that the said order records that prima facie it appears that the petitioner Inspector Yashvir Singh Tyagi has committed an offence under Section 201 / 192 / 120B Indian Penal Code (I.P.C. for short) and thereafter summons him as an accused under Section 319 Criminal Procedure Code (Cr.P.C. for short) for the offence punishable under Sections 201 / 192 / 120B I.P.C. and further lists the case for faming additional charge against the accused under Section 201 / 120B I.P.C.. 
Petitioner in Crl.Rev.P.1068/2018, i.e., Rajeev Chaudhary @ Rajeev Kumar, who is the accused in FIR No.194/2014 under Section 302 I.P.C., Police Station Jagat Puri also impugns the said order insofar as it seeks to list the matter for framing additional charge against him under Sections 201 / 120B I.P.C.. 
Inspector Yashvir Singh Tyagi was the first Investigating Officer of the case and was entrusted with the investigation of the case at the time of registration of the FIR on 31.03.2014 till 04.04.2014, when the case was transferred to District Investigation Unit. 
Subject FIR was registered on the complaint of one constable Sanjeev, who had given his statement that he was on duty on the police picket in the intervening night of 30 - 31 March, 2014 and at CRL.REV.P. 1052/2018 &amp;  of 19 CRL.REV.P. 1068/2018 about 1 AM he saw two persons, whom he knew from before, get out of a Scorpio Car on the main road where they were talking. He subsequently saw that the talking had escalated into an aggravated discussion, where after, he stated that he saw the accused Rajeev Chaudhary take out a revolver from his pocket and with that he shot the deceased on his right temple at point blank range, because of which the victim died. Subsequently, it is alleged that the accused drove away from the spot in his Scorpio Car. 
FIR was registered on the DD Entry given on the statement of Constable Sanjeev. Thereafter, investigation was marked to Inspector Yashvir Singh Tyagi. 
Perusal of the record shows that the Inspector Yashvir Singh Tyagi thereafter issued &#34;Request For Post Mortem&#34; to Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital requesting for preservation of certain items. 
FIR was registered on 31.03.2014, final report was filed on 
06.2014 reporting that it was not a case of murder but of suicide. The Court of Metropolitan Magistrate was not satisfied with the report and, accordingly, on 30.06.2014, directed further investigation. Thereafter, on 30.08.2014, another final report was filed, wherein, the Police reported that they were not certain as to whether it was a case of murder or suicide. On perusal of the evidence and after hearing the counsel for the accused and also the Public Prosecutor, charge under CRL.REV.P. 1052/2018 &amp;  of 19 CRL.REV.P. 1068/2018 Section 302 I.P.C. was framed against the accused Rajeev Chaudhary, (petitioner in Crl.Rev.Pet.1068/2018). 
During trial when the statement of the doctor, who had appeared from Guru Teg Bahadhur Hospital as PW - 3, to prove the &#34;Request For Post Mortem&#34;, was being recorded, it transpired that the &#34;Request For Post Mortem&#34;, a copy of which was produced by the hospital, showed that only three items were requested to be preserved, i.e., viscera, clothes and blood. 
When Inspector Yashvir Singh Tyagi appeared as a prosecution witness, as. PW - 11, he also sought to prove the original &#34;Request For Post Mortem&#34;. The Trial Court observed that in the original &#34;Request For Post Mortem&#34;, produced by Inspector Yashvir Singh Tyagi, apart from the three items sought to be preserved (as indicated by PW - 3), there were two additional items which were mentioned in the original &#34;Request For Post Mortem&#34;, i.e., (d) handwash of the deceased and (e) scalp hair. 
The Trial Court observed that at the time of the recording of the statement of PW - 3, a specific question had been put by learned counsel appearing for the accused as to why he had preserved the scalp hair when there was no request made in the &#34;Request For Post Mortem&#34;. The doctor had stated that he had preserved the scalp hair on his own. He categorically denied that there was any request made CRL.REV.P. 1052/2018 &amp;  of 19 CRL.REV.P. 1068/2018 for preserving the handwash of the deceased. 
The Trial Court, in the impugned order, has noticed that during investigation the case was diverted towards suicidal theory and even charge sheet was filed indicating that during investigation, evidence of Section 302 I.P.C. was not found and, accordingly, the Trial Court was of the view that preservation of handwash of the deceased and accused, to rule out the possibility of using revolver by showing the presence of gunpowder/lead particles on the handwash of either of deceased or accused, was an important piece of evidence. 
The Trial Court thereafter inter alia held as under:- &#34;As during investigation this case was diverted towards suicidal theory and even the police filed the charge sheet that during investigation, evidence of section 302 I.P.C. was not found, thus, preservation of handwash of deceased and accused to rule out the possibility of using revolver by showing the presence of gunpowder/led particles on the handwash of either of deceased or accused, was an important piece of evidence. It is pertinent to note here that doctor, who conducted post-mortem on the body of deceased was examined as PW3 and during his examination, PW3 Dr. Vishwajeet Singh specifically deposed that IO only requested three items to be preserved i.e. viscera, clothes and blood vide Ex.PW3/C i.e. photocopy/carbon copy of request for post-mortem and he further explained that at his own he preserved the scalp hair from around the firearm entry wound site for range estimation and further specifically deposed that before starting the postmortem the CRL.REV.P. 1052/2018 &amp;  of 19 CRL.REV.P. 1068/2018 investigating officer was asked, if preservation of swab/handwash of deceased is required, on which he said that it is not required and he recorded this fact in post-mortem report Ex.PW3/B. Thus, there are two documents on record i.e. Ex.PW3/C and Ex.PW11/E and exhibit PW3/C is the photocopy of the request for the post-mortem made by IO/Inspector Yashvir Tyagi i.e. Ex.PW11/E wherein on one document i.e. request for post-mortem, which was given to doctor, who conducted the post-mortem it was not mentioned to preserve the handwash of deceased while in other document i.e. request for post-mortem Ex.PW11/E which was filed along with charge sheet, it is mentioned to preserve the handwash. These facts show that an attempt was made to show the court that although IO requested the concerned doctor, who conducted the post-mortem vide request Ex.PW11/E to preserve the handwash of deceased to rule out the possibility of suicide but the concerned doctor had not taken the handwash while in fact the IO refused the doctor to take the handwash and in carbon/Photostat copy of the request for post-mortem, which he had given to doctor at the time of post-mortem, he had not mentioned for taking the handwash of the deceased. Not only this, in report Ex.PW8/A, Dr. N. B. Bardhan observed a strong presence of &#34;Nitrite&#34; in the handwash sample of the accused and further observed that such a strong presence of &#34;Nitrite&#34; is generally not observed in a handwash sample. After perusing the material on record and evidence of PW3 Dr. Vishwajeet Singh as well as of PW11 Inspector Yashvir Tyagi, it appears to me that Inspector Yashvir Tyagi knowingly for causing disappearance of the CRL.REV.P. 1052/2018 &amp;  of 19 CRL.REV.P. 1068/2018 evidence, fabricated the false evidence by mentioning that he requested for taking handwash of the deceased vide Ex.PW11/E and in fact he did not do so and asked the doctor not to preserve the handwash of the deceased as appearing in post-mortem report Ex.PW3/B in conspiracy with the accused to help him. Section 319 Cr.P.C empowers the Court that if during trial it appears from the evidence that any person not being the accused has committed any offence for which such person could be tried together with the accused, the Court may proceed against such person for the offence which he appears to have committed. After considering the evidence of PW3 Dr. Vishwajeet Singh and PW11 Inspector Yashvir Tyagi, as well as documents Ex.PW3/B, Ex.PW3/C and Ex.PW11/E, prima facie, it appears that Inspector Yashvir Tyagi has committed an offence punishable u/s. 201/192/120B I.P.C .. Therefore, Inspector Yashvir Tyagi is summoned as an accused u/s. 319 Cr. P.C for offence punishable u/s. 201/192/120B I.P.C .. He be summoned accordingly. Put up for appearance of Inspector Yashvir Tyagi as an accused for offence punishable u/s. 201/192/120B I.P.C . and for framing additional charge against accused u/s. 201/120B I.P.C ., on 10.12.2018.&#34; 
By the impugned order, the Trial Court on perusal of the material and evidence of PW - 3 and PW - 11 has returned a prima facie finding that it appeared that the Inspector Yashvir Singh Tyagi, knowingly for causing disappearance of the evidence, fabricated the false evidence by mentioning that he had requested for taking handwash of the deceased when in fact he had not done so. CRL.REV.P. 1052/2018 &amp;  of 19 CRL.REV.P. 1068/2018 
The Trial Court, while exercising powers under Section 319 Cr.P.C., prima facie held that Inspector Yashvir Singh Tyagi had committed an offence punishable under Section 201 / 192 / 120B I.P.C. and, accordingly, summoned him to face trial along with the accused. 
Learned senior counsel appearing for Inspector Yashvir Singh Tyagi submits that no offence either under Section 201 I.P.C. or under Section 192 I.P.C. is made out. He submits that the basic ingredients of Section 201 I.P.C. are lacking in the present case and the circumstances do not warrant proceedings against the petitioner Inspector Yashvir Singh Tyagi for the offence under Section 192 I.P.C.. 
Learned senior counsel further contends that in terms of Section 195 Cr.P.C., no Court can take cognizance of an offence under Section 192 I.P.C. except on a complaint by a concerned Court. Learned senior counsel further submits that a complaint under Section 195 Cr.P.C. has to be before the concerned Magistrate and the Sessions Court, more so, the Court that is seized of the subject FIR, cannot try the same. He further submits that the procedure under Section 340 Cr.P.C. has to be followed. 
Learned counsel appearing for the accused Rajeev Chaudhary also submits that the facts do not show that ingredients of Section 201 I.P.C. or Section 192 I.P.C. are made out. He further submits that CRL.REV.P. 1052/2018 &amp;  of 19 CRL.REV.P. 1068/2018 there is no question of the accused being in criminal conspiracy with Inspector Yashvir Singh Tyagi and, as such, he cannot be made to face additional charge under Sections 201 / 120B I.P.C.. 
Learned counsel for the accused Rajeev Chaudhary also contends that the FIR, which has been registered on a DD Entry, is not registered on the first information as the first information was a telephonic call by Constable Sanjeev that an accident had taken place. 
Learned APP for the State submits that ex facie it is apparent that the Inspector Yashvir Singh Tyagi has fabricated evidence as the &#34;Request For Post Mortem&#34; produced by the hospital and the &#34;Request For Post Mortem&#34; produced by Inspector Yashvir Singh Tyagi in evidence do not tally. He further submits that the ingredients of Section 201 I.P.C. are clearly made out. 
Since only a photocopy of &#34;Request For Post Mortem&#34; had been produced and tendered in evidence by Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, directions were issued to Superintendent, Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital to produce their record. On 09.01.2019. Mr. Sharad Verma, Mortuary In charge, GTB Hospital had produced the carbon copy of the &#34;Request For Post Mortem&#34;. Perusal of the carbon copy showed that same was identical to the one which was produced by the Doctor from Guru Teg Bahadhur Hospital - PW-3 before the Trial Court and exhibited as Ex.PW3/C. CRL.REV.P. 1052/2018 &amp;  of 19 CRL.REV.P. 1068/2018 
In the instant case, Inspector Yashvir Singh Tyagi has been summoned to face trial under Section 201 / 192 / 120B I.P.C.. 
For section 201 I.P.C. to be attracted, the ingredients of said section have to be fulfilled. 
 Section 201 I.P.C. reads as under:- &#34;201. Causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender.-- &#34;Whoever, knowing or having reason to believe that an offence has been committed, causes any evidence of the commission of that offence to disappear, with the intention of screening the offender from legal punishment, or with that intention gives any information respecting the offence which he knows or believes to be false; if a capital offence.--shall, if the offence which he knows or believes to have been committed is punishable with death, be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine; if punishable with imprisonment for life.--and if the offence is punishable with imprisonment for life, or with imprisonment which may extend to ten years, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, and shall also be liable to fine; if punishable with less than ten years&#39; imprisonment.-- and if the offence is punishable with imprisonment for any term not extending to ten years, shall be punished CRL.REV.P. 1052/2018 &amp;  of 19 CRL.REV.P. 1068/2018 with imprisonment of the description provided for the offence, for a term which may extend to one-fourth part of the longest term of the imprisonment provided for the offence, or with fine, or with both. Illustration A, knowing that B has murdered Z, assists B to hide the body with the intention of screening B from punishment. A is liable to imprisonment of either description for seven years, and also to fine.&#34; 
 Section 201 I.P.C. makes a person punishable for the said offence if (i) a person knowing or having reason to believe that an offence has been committed, (ii) causes any evidence of the commission of that offence to disappear, (iii) with the intention of screening the offender from legal punishment, or (iv) with that intention gives any evidence respecting the offence, which he knows or believes to be false. 
In the present case, the allegations against the Inspector Yashvir Singh Tyagi is that in the original &#34;Request For Post Mortem&#34;, that he has produced in evidence, he had mentioned two additional items to be preserved i.e. (i) handwash of the deceased and (ii) scalp hair of the deceased. 
He has not been summoned to face charge under section 201 I.P.C. for the reason that he had omitted to mention these two items, when he had issued the &#34;Request For Post Mortem&#34; to the hospital, but because he has added these two items in the original &#34;Request For CRL.REV.P. 1052/2018 &amp;  of 19 CRL.REV.P. 1068/2018 Post Mortem&#34; later. 
For Section 201 I.P.C. to be attracted there has to be an action of a person causing disappearance of any evidence of offence and that disappearance has to be with the intention of screening the offender. 
Subject FIR has been registered on a statement given by an eye witness - Constable Sanjeev, that he had observed the accused fire at the deceased. The eye witness version given to the police was that he had seen the incident and he had seen the accused shoot the deceased at point blank range. The eye witness account is not that the deceased had fired the weapon. 
The two items which are missing from the &#34;Request For Post Mortem&#34; are not pieces of evidence which were available and Inspector Yashvir Singh Tyagi has caused their disappearance. It is the case of the prosecution that the handwash of the accused was taken when the accused was apprehended. 
It is not the case that the request for post mortem, as it originally stood, attracts Section 201 I.P.C.. Section 201 I.P.C . is sought to be attracted solely because of alleged subsequent addition of two items in the &#34;Request For Post Mortem&#34; by Inspector Yashvir Singh Tyagi. Even if it is assumed that the two items have been added later by Inspector Yashvir Singh Tyagi, the Impugned order CRL.REV.P. 1052/2018 &amp;  of 19 CRL.REV.P. 1068/2018 does not take into account that this action has not caused disappearance of any evidence. Impugned order does not state as to what evidence has disappeared. 
Further, section 201 is attracted, if the disappearance of evidence is with the intention of screening the offender. Trial court order is also silent as to how the subsequent addition of two items in the &#34;Request For Post Mortem&#34; screens the accused. 
One of the items, i.e., the scalp hair, has been preserved by the doctor and the other item, i.e., the handwash of the deceased would not, in any manner, aid or screen the offender, i.e. the accused Rajeev Chaudhary. 
The Trial Court has passed the impugned order on the ground that originally charge sheet has been filed, diverting the case towards suicide theory. What the Trial Court failed to notice is that Inspector Yashvir Singh Tyagi was the Investigating Officer only for four days and during the period that he was the Investigating Officer, the FIR was registered and investigated for the offence under Section 302 I.P.C.. 
It is an admitted position that there is no circular or office order stipulating that in all cases involving gunshot injury, hand wash of the deceased has to be taken and preserved. In the facts of a particular CRL.REV.P. 1052/2018 &amp;  of 19 CRL.REV.P. 1068/2018 case, the Investigating officer may or may not request for taking and preserving the hand wash of the deceased. 
In this case, there was an oral statement of an eyewitness who had categorically stated that he had viewed the incident. The statement of the eyewitness to the Investigating Officer did not indicate that the weapon had ever travelled into the hands of the deceased. As per the eyewitness statement, which was then available before the then Investigating Officer, i.e., Inspector Yashvir Singh Tyagi, taking and preserving the hand wash of the deceased was inconsequential. 
In these circumstances, no fault can be found with the Inspector Yashvir Singh Tyagi for not having requested for taking and preserving the hand wash of the deceased. 
The Trial Court relied on a final report, which was filed on 
06.2014 through some other Investigating Officer because Inspector Yashvir Singh Tyagi had ceased to be the investigation officer after four days on 04.04.2014. 
Clearly, the action of the petitioner Inspector Yashvir Singh Tyagi does not cause any evidence of commission of offence to disappear and that also with the intention to screen the accused. 
In view of the above, the order of the Trial Court directing CRL.REV.P. 1052/2018 &amp;  of 19 CRL.REV.P. 1068/2018 summoning of Inspector Yashvir Singh Tyagi for the offence under Section 201 I.P.C. and also placing the matter for framing of additional charge against the accused under Section 201 / 120B I.P.C. cannot be sustained and is liable to be quashed. 
Now coming to the offence under Section 192 I.P.C., section 192 I.P.C. reads as under:- &#34;192. Fabricating false evidence.--Whoever causes any circumstance to exist or makes any false entry in any book or record, or electronic record or makes any document or electronic record containing a false statement], intending that such circumstance, false entry or false statement may appear in evidence in a judicial proceeding, or in a proceeding taken by law before a public servant as such, or before an arbitrator, and that such circumstance, false entry or false statement, so ap- pearing in evidence, may cause any person who in such proceeding is to form an opinion upon the evidence, to entertain an erroneous opinion touching any point material to the result of such proceeding, is said &#34;to fabricate false evidence&#34;. 
For a prosecution under Section 192 I.P.C., Section 195 Cr.P.C. stipulates as under:- &#34;195. Prosecution for contempt of lawful authority of public servants, for offences against public justice and for offences relating to documents given in evidence. (1) No Court shall take cognizance- (a) ***** ***** CRL.REV.P. 1052/2018 &amp;  of 19 CRL.REV.P. 1068/2018 (b) (i) of any offence punishable under any of the following sections of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), namely, sections 193 to 196 (both inclusive), 199, 200, 205 to 211 (both inclusive) and 228, when such offence is alleged to have been committed in, or in relation to, any proceeding in any Court, or (ii) of any offence described in section 463, or punishable under section 471, section 475 or section 476, of the said Code, when such offence is alleged to have been committed in respect of a document produced or given in evidence in a proceeding in any Court, or (iii) of any criminal conspiracy to commit, or attempt to commit, or the abetment of, any offence specified in sub- clause (i) or sub- clause (ii), except on the complaint in writing of that Court, or of some other Court to which that Court is subordinate.&#34; 
 Section 195 Cr.P.C. bars taking of cognizance by any court of any of the offences mentioned therein except on the complaint in writing of that court or of some other court to which such court is subordinate. 
 Section 340 Cr.P.C. prescribes the procedure for cases mentioned in Section 195 Cr.P.C. inter alia Section 193 I.P.C. (which is the punishment for Section 192 I.P.C.). 
 Section 340 Cr.P.C. stipulates that where on an application CRL.REV.P. 1052/2018 &amp;  of 19 CRL.REV.P. 1068/2018 made to a Court, the Court is of the opinion that it is expedient and in the interest of justice, that an inquiry should be made into any offence referred to in Section 195(1)(b) committed in or in relation to a proceeding in that Court, the Court is to inter alia : (i) record a finding to that effect, (ii) make a complaint in writing and (iii) send it to a Magistrate of the first class having jurisdiction for trial. 
 Section 195 read with section 340 Cr.P.C. shows that cognizance of an offence under any of the section mentioned in section 195 Cr.P.C. can be taken by a court only after it has received a complaint in writing from the concerned court or from a court to which such a court is subordinate. A complaint can be made by a court after following the procedure prescribed under section 340 Cr.P.C. 
Further, the precondition for exercising powers under Section 340 Cr.P.C is that the Court has to form an opinion that it is expedient and in the interest of justice, that an inquiry of such a nature is to be made. The Court would form an opinion as to expediency based on the material that comes before it at trial. 
The court would, while forming such an opinion, also examine the effect and impact of such an evidence, which is alleged to be tainted. It would not be in every cases that the Court would comes to a conclusion that it is expedient and in the interest of justice, that such CRL.REV.P. 1052/2018 &amp;  of 19 CRL.REV.P. 1068/2018 an inquiry should be made. If the concerned court is of the view that the tainted material/evidence is inconsequential and would not have any bearing on the issues at hand, the court may deem it expedient not to proceed further under section 340 and 195 Cr.P.C. and may pass appropriate orders for admonishment or imposing some form of penalty or fine. However, it would depend on facts of each case. 
In this case, no such enquiry under section 195 read with section 340 Cr.P.C. has been made by the Trial Court. There is no finding recorded by the Trial Court, as is prescribed by section 340 Cr.P.C., that it is expedient and in the interest of justice that an enquiry should be made and further the trial court has not made any complaint in writing and sent it to the Magistrate of first class having jurisdiction but has straight away sought to summon Inspector Yashvir Singh Tyagi, which is not permissible and as such the impugned order to that extent is also not sustainable and is liable to be quashed. 
In view of the above, the impugned order dated 26.10.2018, holding that the Inspector Yashvir Singh Tyagi has prima facie committed an offence punishable under Section 201 / 192 / 120B I.P.C., thereafter summoning him as an accused under Section 319 Cr.P.C. for the offence punishable under Sections 201 / 192 / 120B I.P.C. and also listing the matter for framing additional charge against the CRL.REV.P. 1052/2018 &amp;  of 19 CRL.REV.P. 1068/2018 accused Rajeev Chaudhary under Sections 201 / 120B I.P.C., is quashed. 
In the present case, since the trial is at the fag end and most of the evidence has already been recorded, it would be expedient for the Trial Court to form such an opinion, as required by section 340 Cr.P.C., only after the trial is concluded and final arguments are advanced. 
In case, the Trial Court is satisfied, at that stage, that it is expedient and in the interest of justice, that such an inquiry should be made against Inspector Yashvir Singh Tyagi for allegedly committing an offence under section 192 I.P.C., it would be open to the Trial Court to make such an order and follow the course prescribed by section 340 Cr.P.C.. 
It is clarified that this Court has neither considered nor expressed any opinion on the merits of the trial in FIR No.194/2014 under Section 302 I.P.C.. 
The petitions are, accordingly, allowed in the above terms. 
Order Dasti under the signatures of the Court Master. SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J JANUARY 23, 2019/st CRL.REV.P. 1052/2018 &amp;  of 19 CRL.REV.P. 1068/2018 Rahul Singh vs State on 18 September, 2019

Vide the present application, the applicant/ accused seeks directions thereby to be released on bail in the event of his arrest in connection with FIR No. 87/2019 registered at Chanakyapuri Police Station for the offences punishable under Sections 376 / 506 IPC on such terms and condition as this Court may deem fit and proper. BAIL APPLN. 2336/2019.  of 7 
Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the applicant submits that the applicant and prosecutrix used to go out for late-night dinners and parties and in most cases, the applicant used to pay for the outings. When the applicant used to meet his colleagues, the prosecutrix always insisted on accompanying him. It reached an extent that it used to be very uncomfortable for the applicant to see the prosecutrix alone amongst men in an intoxicated state. There have also been incidents when the applicant showed his discomfort towards the same and the prosecutrix used to abuse the applicant alleging him to be a narrow-minded man who does not deserve anyone&#39;s love. 
It is further submitted that the prosecutrix and applicant got physically involved as the applicant was in severe depression due to the medical condition of his mother and the pending divorce proceedings with his wife. The prosecutrix took such a gesture of the applicant as that of true love and never questioned his intentions. 
Subsequently, as the demands of the prosecutrix started growing and when the applicant was unable to fulfil them due to shortage of money, their relationship started to turn sour. It went to such an extent that the applicant was humiliated in public by the prosecutrix and words like &#39;kadka&#39; and BAIL APPLN. 2336/2019.  of 7 &#39;nanga&#39; were used against him. The prosecutrix used to abuse the mother of the applicant as well, even though at the beginning of the relationship she encouraged the applicant to spend more time with her. Subsequently, she started asking the applicant why he is spending so much on her medicines considering her age. 
Learned counsel further submits that the physical relations between the applicant and the prosecutrix were consensual and section 376 IPC does not attract in this case. 
On the other hand, learned APP appearing on behalf of State submits that the petitioner was married, however, he still gave false promises of marriage to prosecutrix and, accordingly, she agreed to have physical relations. He further submits that the applicant was not supposed to conceal marriage and should not have given false promises to many to the prosecutrix. The prosecutrix had physical relations with applicant on false promise, but on one day, as per the statement recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C., the applicant gave beer to her which was spiked with some intoxication and at that point of time, when she was not in her senses, the applicant took advantage of that and had sexual intercourse with prosecutrix without her consent. BAIL APPLN. 2336/2019.  of 7 
The FIR mentioned above is registered on the basis of written complaint of the prosecutrix. She stated in the complaint that in the month of January, 2019, when she was working at PVR Chanakyapuri, at around 7.00 -7.30 PM, one person, namely, Rahul Singh (applicant herein), came to her and told her that he was not feeling well due to stomach pain. So, as per her duty, she gave him luke warm water and then he requested for ENO. She requested her staff to get the ENO medicine and they gave him the same. After few days, the applicant sent her a message on facebook messenger by stating &#39;Thank you &#39;S&#39;., you helped me&#39;. 
After few days, the applicant again came to PVR Chanakyapuri Cinema and he personally spoke to her and thanked her and he also told her that he was working with MPs (Members of Parliament) and after talking for a while, they both became good friends and exchanged their numbers. Applicant used to visit the prosecutrix at her office to pick and drop her and they both used to have lunch together almost everyday. 
In the month of March, 2019, applicant proposed the prosecutrix for marriage at India Gate. She trusted him. As he kept a very warm and loving behaviour towards her, she accepted his marriage proposal. At first, the applicant took her to his friend&#39;s place (home) at Chanakya Puri and got BAIL APPLN. 2336/2019.  of 7 intimate with her. After that applicant used to take her to different OYO Rooms at various times and got physical with her. On 10.03.2019, applicant took the prosecutrix to the Eros Garden OYO Rooms and made physical relations with her. Thereafter, he regularly took her to the OYO Rooms i.e. 
03.2019, 20.03.2019, 31.03.2019 and he had physical relations with her everytime. In the month of May, 2019, applicant took the prosecutrix to the OYO Room and on that day, the prosecutrix asked applicant as to when they were getting married, to which the applicant replied that they will marry in the month of November or after Diwali. However, on 29.06.2019, the prosecutrix came to know that she was pregnant and she immediately informed to the applicant in reply to which he asked her not to worry and advised her to take contraceptive pill. Afterwards, he came and gave her some contraceptive pills for not conceiving. On 04.07.2019, applicant and the prosecutrix also stayed in OYO, NFC. On 31.07.2019, applicant took the prosecutrix to OYO Kapoor Inn in Greater Kailash and again, they had physical relations. On that night, the prosecutrix came to know that the applicant was already married with a girl &#39;P&#39; and his divorce case was also going on. Thus, he had physical relations with her on the pretext of marriage and had raped her thereon. BAIL APPLN. 2336/2019.  of 7 
On the basis of written complaint made by the prosecutrix, the FIR in question was registered against the applicant. But, fact remains that the applicant and the prosecutrix had frequent physical relations at different hotels and at different places. Even on 31.07.2019, when she came to know that applicant was married, they had physical relations with each other. 
In view of above facts without commenting on the merits of the case, I am of the view that the applicant is entitled for anticipatory bail. 
Accordingly, the SHO/Arresting Officer/IO concerned, is hereby directed that in the event of arrest, the petitioner/ applicant be released on bail on the following terms and conditions:- (i) That the applicant shall furnish a personal bond in the sum of ₹25,000/- with two sureties of the like amount subject to the satisfaction of Arresting Officer/SHO/IO concerned; (ii) That the applicant shall cooperate with the investigation and make himself available for interrogation before police officer, as and when called; (iii) That applicant shall not contact directly and indirectly to any of the prosecution witnesses. BAIL APPLN. 2336/2019.  of 7 In case of default of aforementioned conditions, the State is at liberty to take appropriate recourse in accordance with law. 
Application stands allowed and disposed of accordingly. 
Order dasti under the signatures of Court Master.Yogesh Malhotra vs Sonia Malhotra &amp; Anr. on 26 July, 2019

07.2019 SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J. (ORAL) 
Petitioner impugns order dated 02.05.2017 whereby the appeal of the petitioner under Section 341 of the Criminal Procdure Code (Cr.P.C. for short) impugning order dated 11.03.2013 has been dismissed. 
The petitioner had filed an application under Section 340 Cr.P.C contending that he was facing a kalandra under Section CRL.REV.P.618/2017  of 5 107/150 Cr.P.C . and contradictory statements had been made by the complainant/respondent herein. 
The parties are neighbours. 
A kalandra under Section 107 / 150 Cr.P.C. was filed on the complaint of the respondent, that petitioner had inter alia quarrelled with her. 
The petitioner filed an application under Section 340 Cr.P.C contending that there were several discrepancies in the statement of the respondent based on which the kalandra was issued and that the statement given by her was false. 
The Trial Court on perusal of the record noticed that though there were certain contradictions in the cross examination of the complainant/respondent but noted that the same could be due to passage of time and that the complainant was a lady. 
The Trial Court, on perusal of the kalandra, material on record, status report with regard to breach of peace and the arguments put forth by the parties, further held that since more than 11 months had passed in the proceedings and no untoward incident had come to light and there was no further PCR call or complaint filed by the complainant against the petitioner, no further proceedings were called for. 
The Appellate Court has held that proceedings under Section CRL.REV.P.618/2017  of 5 340 Cr.P.C are to be initiated only if the Court is of the view that it is expedient in the interest of justice that an enquiry should be made into any offence as mentioned in clause (b) of sub section (1) of Section 195 of the Code. 
The Appellate Court on perusal of the file including the Trial Court record held that the learned Special Executive Magistrate had rightly passed the order mentioning that though there were certain contradictions but the main issue of dispute was the quarrel that had taken place on the day of the incident. The Appellate Court held that the provisions of Section 340 of the Code were not attracted merely on the contradictions in the contents of the kalandra and the statement recorded during the testimony or the contradictions that had surfaced during cross examination which could be on account of passage of time. 
The Appellate Court was of the view that it was not expedient in the interest of justice that an enquiry should be held as required under Section 340 Cr.P.C. 
On perusal of the record as well as on hearing the submission of the petitioner, who appears in person, it appears that petitioner is referring to incidental suffering that the petitioner had suffered on account of the complaint and is relying upon alleged contradictions in the version of the complainant as recorded in the kalandra and her testimony before the Court. CRL.REV.P.618/2017  of 5 
It is for the concerned Court to ascertain as to whether it is expedient in the interest of justice to proceed further under Section 340 Cr.P.C or not. Both the Trial Court as well as the Appellate Court have held that it is not expedient in the interest of justice to proceed further under Section 340 Cr.P.C. 
The basic object behind the Revisional Power under section 401 Cr.P.C. is to empower the High Court with powers of an appellant court so as to prevent failure of justice, in cases where the code does not provide for appeal. Revisional power is to be exercised only in exceptional cases where there has been a miscarriage of justice. 
While exercising the powers of revision, which are discretionary, the court should always bear in mind the limitation that in the grab of exercising its power of revision; it cannot in effect exercise the powers of appeal. 
In view of the categorical observations of the Trial Court as well as the Appellate Court that it is not expedient in the interest of justice to conduct an enquiry under Section 340 Cr.P.C, I am not inclined to exercise the Revisional Powers in the facts and circumstances of the present case and to direct an enquiry, when both the trial court and appellate court have held that it is not expedient and in the interest of justice to conduct such an enquiry. 
It may also be observed that the kalandra which was initiated at the complaint of the respondent has since been closed as the Trial CRL.REV.P.618/2017  of 5 Court found that for over a period of 11 months there was no complaint made by the parties against each other. The petitioner who is present in person also admits that after the said incident, there is no other incident reported from either side. He, however, submits that he has initiated proceedings against the respondent for defamation for filing a false kalandra, which are pending. 
In view of the facts and circumstances as noticed above, I am of the view that no interference is called for in the orders of the Appellate as well as the Trial Court that it is not expedient in the interest of justice that an enquiry should be made in terms of section 340 Cr.P.C. 
The petition is accordingly dismissed. JULY 26, 2019 SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J rk CRL.REV.P.618/2017  of 5 Atibal Singh vs State Of Nct Of Delhi on 14 March, 2019

Petitioner seeks anticipatory bail in FIR No.310/2018 under Section 302 IPC, Police Station Sarita Vihar. 
Subject FIR was registered consequent to information received that a person was found in an injured condition under a flyover. When the concerned duty officer reached the flyover, he came to know that the person had been moved to Apollo Hospital. During investigation, Bail Appln.658/2019  of 6 it was found that the person had succumbed to his injuries because of a gunshot. 
The case of the prosecution is based on an alleged confessional/disclosure statement of one Bhikam. 
Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the disclosure/confessional statement of a co-accused is a weak piece of evidence and apart from his disclosure statement, there is no other material to connect the petitioner with the subject offence. He further submits that part of the disclosure statement is ex-facie incorrect inasmuch as in the disclosure statement, Bhikam has contended that he had purchased a Pulsar Motorcycle out of the looted amount whereas the registration of the Motorcycle shows that the same was purchased about two months prior to the incident. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that since part of the statement has been found to be false, the entire statement is liable to be disregarded. 
Learned counsel for the petitioner further submits that the petitioner has been falsely implicated and that there was a demand made by the Investigating Officer, when the son of the petitioner was arrested, and as the demand was not fulfilled, petitioner has been falsely implicated and chargesheet has been filed. 
Learned counsel for the petitioner relies on the judgment of the Supreme court in Jayendra Saraswati Swamigal vs. State of Tamil Bail Appln.658/2019  of 6 Nadu: 2005 (1) JCC 118 to contend that confessional statement is a very weak piece of evidence and can only be relied upon to lend credence to corroborative material. 
In the disclosure statement given by the co-accused Bhikam, he has alleged that he had received a call from one of his known persons that his father-in-law (petitioner herein) had some work whereby quick money could be made, however, he needed someone who had a country made pistol. Bhikam is alleged to have stated that he had a country made pistol and was willing to make quick money. 
It is alleged that Bhikam came to Delhi to meet his friend who introduced him to his father-in-law (the petitioner herein). The petitioner is alleged to have then informed them that there was a person (deceased herein) who was in the job of collecting money from various venders and he could be threatened at gun point to handover the money. Bhikam in his disclosure statement further stated that he went back to his village to get his country made pistol and seven rounds and thereafter he came to Delhi and along with the son of the petitioner and trailed the deceased for 3-4 days. 
On the date of the incident, it is alleged that the co-accused trailed the deceased. While trailing, it is alleged that they could not find a secluded spot and thereafter, they called the petitioner, who informed them of the lonely spot and stated that they should shoot him there and snatch the bag. In his confessional statement, he had alleged Bail Appln.658/2019  of 6 that at the spot they shot the deceased from behind. Thereafter they moved ahead from the spot and subsequently returned. When people who had gathered at the spot, they also joined in and to mislead the public helped in removing the motorcycle of the deceased and the bag of money from the spot. 
No doubt, confessional statement of a co-accused is a weak piece of evidence, however, one has to be conscious of the fact that the petitioner is seeking anticipatory bail in an offence under Section 302 IPC. The co-accused has alleged that petitioner is the mastermind and had planned the whole offence. As per the co-accused, the entire offence has happened on the planning and instructions of the petitioner. 
At this stage, when the investigation qua the role of the petitioner is at a very nascent stage, it would not be in the interest of justice to enlarge the petitioner on anticipatory bail. Further, keeping in view the facts and circumstances of the case, the request of learned APP for the State for custodial interrogation of the petitioner does not seem to be unjustified. 
The judgment in the case Jayendra Saraswati Swamigal (supra) is not applicable in the facts of the case as in the said case the Supreme Court was dealing with a case of regular bail and not a case of anticipatory bail and further in the said case, despite substantial period elapsing, no incriminating material was found against the Bail Appln.658/2019  of 6 accused except the confessional statement. 
In the present case, no time has elapsed, since the allegations of the role of the petitioner have surfaced and the same need to be investigated by the investigating officer. In my view, enlarging the petitioner on anticipatory bail would hamper investigation. Accordingly, I am of the view that petitioner is not entitled to be enlarged on anticipatory bail. 
The alleged plea that part of the confessional statement has been found to be false as the motorcycle, alleged to have been purchased from the stolen money, was registered in the name of the co-accused two months prior to the incident, to my mind, would not render the entire confessional statement, if corroborated by other material, inadmissible. Investigation into the allegations has yet to take place. The alleged confessional/disclosure statement cannot be disregarded at the stage of investigation. 
Further, the allegation that the Investigation Officer had demanded money and since it was not paid, the petitioner has been falsely implicated, to my mind, is a mere allegation to prejudice the Court and there is no material to substantiate the same and accordingly, cannot be given credence to. 
It is also observed that the petitioner had earlier approached this Court on 07.01.2019 and after some arguments when the Court was Bail Appln.658/2019  of 6 not inclined to grant bail, learned counsel for the petitioner had sought leave to withdraw the petition. 
I find no merit in the petition. Petition is accordingly dismissed. 
It is clarified that this Court has only made prima facie observations on the materials brought by the prosecution and has not commented on the merits of the case. 
Order Dasti under the signatures of the Court Master. MARCH 14, 2019 SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J st Bail Appln.658/2019  of 6 Dinesh Kumar vs State on 8 January, 2019

Subject appeal impugns judgment on conviction dated 05.12.2011 and order on sentence dated 17.12.2011 whereby the appellant has been convicted of an offence under Section 306 Indian Penal Code (IPC for short) and sentenced to undergo 5 years Rigorous Imprisonment besides payment of fine of Rs.2000/-. 
Learned counsel for the appellant submits that a charge was framed against the appellant under Section 304B / 498A / 34 of the IPC. While the appellant stood acquitted of all the charges, the Trial Court has convicted the appellant of an offence under Section 306 IPC. Learned counsel submits that the Trial Court erred in not appreciating CRL.A.18/2012  of 23 that no charge under Section 306 IPC was framed and the appellant was not given any opportunity to defend himself with regard to the offence under Section 306 IPC and as such the appellant could not have been convicted for an offence for which he was not charged. 
Learned counsel for the appellant further submits that even if assuming the appellant could have been punished for an offence under Section 306 IPC, even though not specifically charged, the evidence on record does not substantiate the offence under Section 306 IPC and as such the conviction of the appellant cannot be sustained even on merits of the matter. 
Learned APP appearing for the State submits that the Trial Court has rightly convicted the appellant for an offence under Section 306 IPC, even though the appellant was not charged for the said offence, as there is sufficient evidence available to sustain the charge under Section 306 IPC. He further submits that the Trial Court has referred to the judgment of the Supreme Court in Narwinder Singh vs. State of Punjab , 2011(1) SCR 110 wherein the Supreme Court has held that conviction under Section 306 IPC can be sustained even when it is found that evidence is insufficient to convict the accused under Section 304B , 498A IPC even though no specific charge has been framed. Learned APP further submits that the evidence on record warranted a conviction under Section 306 IPC. 
Without getting into the controversy as to whether the appellant CRL.A.18/2012  of 23 could have been convicted for an offence under Section 306 IPC though not specifically charged for the said offence, I have in the first instance consider the case on merits to ascertain as to whether the conviction of the appellant under Section 306 IPC could be sustained. 
The case of the prosecution is that on 22.10.2009 at about 2 AM information was received regarding death by hanging of a woman. Subsequently, statement of the father of the deceased was recorded wherein he had stated that the deceased had married the appellant on 06.05.2009 according to Hindu rites and ceremonies. 
The complainant, father of the deceased, had stated that he had given dowry beyond his means and after a few days of marriage there were further demands of dowry from the appellant that he wanted to open an electrical shop. It is the case of the prosecution that the deceased had repeatedly informed them that there were further demands for dowry. 
As per the prosecution, the complainant had stated that the sister-in-law (jethani i.e. elder brother&#39;s wife) of the appellant had poured spirit over the deceased and she had escaped by jumping on a nearby roof. Thereafter a panchayat was held in which the matter was sorted out. The in-laws admitted their mistake and it was agreed that they shall not repeat their conduct. 
It is further the case of the prosecution that the deceased committed suicide as she was suspicious that there was an illicit CRL.A.18/2012  of 23 relation between the appellant and his sister-in-law. 
Since the death had taken place between seven years of marriage, inquest proceedings under Section 176 Cr.P.C were conducted and subsequently case under Section 304B / 498A / 34 of the IPC was registered. After final report was filed, following charges were framed against the accused:- CHARGE I, S.K. Sarvaria, Additional Sessions Judge-01, South do hereby charge you (1) Dinesh S/o Rajender Prasad (2) Sumitra @ Santra w/o Rajender Prasad (3) Sukhbir s/o Rajender Prasad and (4) Smt. Sushila wife of Sukhbir as under: That on 21-22/10/09 at about 2.00 AM at House No. 424 Maidan Garhi Road Chattarpur New Delhi within the jurisdiction of PS Mehrauli death of Smt. Priti wife of Dinesh Kumar occurred within seven years of her marriage with Dinesh Kumr on 06.05.09 under the circumstances other than under normal circumstances i.e. by hanging and it is shown that soon before her death she was subjected to cruelty or harassment for fulfilment of illegal demand of dowry by all of you being husband, mother of the husband, brother of the husband and Bhabhi of the husband (sister in law) respectively for or CRL.A.18/2012  of 23 in connection with demand of dowry and thereby committed her dowry death offence punishable under Sections 304-B / 34 IPC and within my cognizance. Secondly during 06.05.09 till 21-22/10/09 at house No. 424 Maidan Garhi Road Chattarpur New Delhi you all in furtherance of your common intention subjected Smt. Priti legally wedded wife of accsued Dinesh with cruelty on account of dowry demands and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 498A / 34 IPC and within my cognizance. And I hereby directed that you all to be tried by this Court for the aforesaid charges&#34; 
Apart from the appellant, his mother, brother and sister-in-law were arraigned as accused. Prosecution led evidence and examined 13 witnesses. 
The Trial Court after perusal of the testimony of the witnesses held as under:- &#34;25. In the present case it is not disputed that the deceased Preeti has died otherwise than under normal circumstances. Statement of PWl Dr Sushil Sharma proves that the deceased Preeti has died due to asphyxia due to ante-mortem hanging. It is not the case of the prosecution that it was a homicidal death. The statement of PW1 coupled with the statement of other witnesses CRL.A.18/2012  of 23 shall prove that the deceased Preeti has committed suicide by hanging. Thus, the first ingredient stands proved that the death of deceased Preeti has been caused otherwise than under normal circumstances. 
The prosecution case also stands proved that the death has taken place within seven years of her marriage. The statement of PW2 Sh Balli Tanwar and PW-3 Sheela who are father and mother of the deceased Preeti will prove this fact. They deposed that deceased Preeti was got married with accused Dinesh on 6.05.2009. The death of the deceased Preeti has taken place on 
10.2009. The postmortem report Ex. PW1/Aproves this fact. So the death has taken place within seven years of marriage. 
Now the prosecution has to prove further that the deceased was subjected to cruelty or harassment by the husband or his relatives; that the cruelty or the harassment had nexus with the demand for dowry and such cruelty or harassment has been caused soon before her death. 
A scrutiny of the various depositions is required to be done to know the answer of this question. PW-2 Balli Tanwar, father of the deceased stated that his daughter Preeti had informed him about demand of Rs.3 Lakhs for opening of an electric shop. However, there is no such mention in the statement of this witness recorded U/S 161 Cr PC regarding any such demand. He also stated that prior to the incident, he had never made any complaint regarding dowry demand and beatings PW-3 Sheela, mother of deceased deposed that on third visit of her daughter to her house, she informed her about her harassment and beatings at the matrimonial house and that the accused persons were demanding Rs. 3 Lacs for opening a cycle shop. However, there is no mention about this demand in her statement recorded U/S 161 Cr CRL.A.18/2012  of 23 P.C. She further stated that this demand was raised after two months of her marriage. She admitted that there was no dowry demand from the accused persons at the time of marriage. She further stated that in the Panchayat the discussion was regarding demands of the accused and of giving beatings to deceased. There are contradictions about the alleged demands. While the father says that the demand was for opening electric shop, mother says that the demand was for opening cycle shop. PW-5 Jitender Kumar, a neighbour of father of deceased stated that he came to know that in-laws of deceased were demanding money for starting of shop. From whom he came to know about this demand, is not known. PW-9 Pappan, Tau of deceased Preeti deposed that after two months of marriage, the accused persons started harassing her for dowry and were demanding dowry i.e. money and motorcycle. How and from whom he came to know about these alleged demands is not clear. No other witness has stated about demand of motorcycle. He further stated in his cross examination that Preeti never told me about any specific amount of money being demanded by the accused persons. He stated that he gave Rs. 25,000/- to Preeti for opening electrical shop for Dinesh but this is not mentioned in the statement recorded U/S 161 Cr PC. PW- 10 Sarwan Kumar, a neighbour of the father of the deceased Preeti stated he had called Preeti at his house, when she had come to her parents&#39; house and on being asked about the reason of her sadness, she replied that she was being maltreated and beaten by her husband, jethani and jeth. He stated in his cross examination that in-laws of Preeti were demanding Rs.3 Lakhs from her but this is not mentioned in his statement recorded uls 161 Cr PC. 
A close perusal of all the aforesaid depositions of the public witnesses show that there is no unanimity regarding demand of dowry by the accused persons from CRL.A.18/2012  of 23 the deceased or from her family members. All the five public witnesses though speak about dowry demand but there is no consistency and corroboration. When the accused persons demanded money and from whom the money was demanded, how it was communicated, who communicated the demand of money, to whom the demand was communicated - nothing is clear. The purpose of recording statement uls 161 Cr PC is to rule out the possibility of improvements and tutoring as the same is recorded at the earliest opportunity after the incident. Most of the witnesses who deposed in the Court stated about demand of dowry by the accused persons but they had not so stated in their statements recorded U/S 161 Cr PC. In the absence of mention of dowry demand in the statement u/s 161 CrPC , the statements/depositions recorded in the Court to this effect, cannot be relied upon. It is one of the basic ingredient of the offence uls 304-B IPC that there must be harassment of the deceased for &#39;dowry&#39;. Prosecution has failed to prove the allegations against the accused persons beyond reasonable doubt as there is no evidence of any harassment to deceased on account of demand of dowry; there is no evidence that she was subjected to any cruelty so as to drive her to commit suicide or any injury to her life, limb and health and there is no evidence on the record to show that &#34;soon before her death&#34; she has been subjected to any cruelty or harassment &#39;on account of demand of dowry&#39;. Therefore, the prosecution not only failed to prove the offence under section 304B IPC but also failed to prove the necessary ingredient of offence under section 498A IPC.&#34; (underlining supplied) 
The Trial Court after perusal of the evidence has categorically returned a finding that prosecution has failed to prove the allegations against the accused beyond reasonable doubt. The Trial Court was of CRL.A.18/2012  of 23 the view that there is no evidence of any harassment of the deceased on account of demand of dowry and further there is no evidence that she was subjected to any cruelty so as to drive her to commit suicide or cause any injury to her life, limb and health and there is no evidence on record to show that soon before her death she was subjected to any cruelty or harassment on account of demand of dowry. 
Trial Court, while acquitting the accused of the offences under Section 498A / 304B / 34 of the IPC, went on to hold that since death has taken place by committing suicide, it examined as to whether there was any abetment on account of the accused persons for driving the deceased to commit suicide so as to make them liable under Section 306 IPC. 
The finding returned by the Trial Court for the offence under section 306 IPC is as under:- &#34;36. Ingredients of the offence uls 306 IPC are that there should be suicide of a person and that it should have been committed in consequence of abetment by the accused. 
PW-l Dr. Sushil Sharma in his evidence has opined that generally death due to asphyxia due to hanging is indicative of suicide unless proved otherwise. No evidence has come on record that the death of the deceased Preeti was homicidal in nature. As such, the death was suicidal in nature. CRL.A.18/2012  of 23 
PW-2 Balli Tanwar, father of the deceased had stated in his deposition that Panchayat had taken place in the house of the accused persons where it was discussed as to why spirit was thrown on his daughter and why she was being beaten regularly. PW-3 Sheela, mother of deceased deposed that after about 2½ - 3 months of marriage, Sushila poured spirit on deceased. Pw-5 Jitender Kumar, a neighbour of the father of the deceased stated that he had attended the Panchayat in which the issue of pouring spirit upon Preeti by the family members of Dinesh was discussed. He further stated that Preeti had jumped on the roof of her neighbour when spirit was attempted to be put on her by her in-laws. PW-9 Pappan, Tau of deceased Preeti stated that in August 2009 spirit was poured upon Preeti by her sister in law Sushila. This issue was also discussed in Panchayat. PW-10 Sarwan Kumar, a neighbour of the father of the deceased Preeti stated that Preeti also told him that once she saved her life by jumping on the roof of her neighbour while spirit was poured upon her by her jethani. He further stated that in the Panchayat issue of pouring of spirit on Preeti was discussed. Another issue which was discussed was about illicit relations between Dinesh and Sushila, although it was not the main issue as the main issue was about pouring of spirit by Sushila upon her. 
From scrutiny of aforesaid depositions, it becomes clear that spirit was poured on deceased Preeti which was discussed in Panchayat. An issue of illicit relations between Dinesh and Sushila was also discussed in Panchayat as has been deposed by the witnesses. No other reason has come on record which could throw any light on the mystery as to why the deceased Preeti committed suicide. In their separate statements u/s 313 Cr.PC , accused Dinesh, husband of the deceased and Sushila, jethani of deceased stated that Preeti suspected CRL.A.18/2012  of 23 that Dinesh was having illicit relations with Sushila. To a question as to why the witnesses deposed against the accused persons, they replied that the witnesses wanted to take revenge. What revenge the witnesses wanted to take and why the witnesses wanted to take revenge from the accused persons has not been brought on record. As such, the defence is sham. The defence witnesses DW-l Laxmi Narain stated that illicit relations between Dinesh and Sushila was an issue which was discussed in Panchayat. DW-2 Rati Ram stated that the issue of pouring of spirit and illicit relations were discussed in Panchayat. It thus appears that the deceased was feeling harassed at the hands of the accused persons as she was physically tortured by putting spirit on her, and mentally due to the illicit relations between Dinesh /and Sushila. Dinesh and Sushila were having illicit relations and the other accused persons failed to ensure a healthy and peaceful matrimonial atmosphere for the deceased Preeti. The issue was discussed in Panchayat but to no avail. Thus, left with no option, Preeti committed suicide and the accused persons Dinesh and Sushila jointly and severally abetted the same.&#34; 
 Section 306 IPC reads as under:- &#34;306. Abetment of suicide.- If any person commits suicide, whoever abets the commission of such suicide, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.&#34; 
Under Section 306 IPC, whoever abets commission of suicide is held liable for abetment of suicide. 
 Section 107 IPC defines abetment as under:- CRL.A.18/2012  of 23 &#34;107. Abetment of a thing - A person abets the doing of a thing, who- (First) - Instigates any person to do that thing; or (Secondly) - Engages with one or more other person or persons in any conspiracy for the doing of that thing, if an act or illegal omission takes place in pursuance of that conspiracy, and in order to the doing of that thing; or (Thirdly) - Intentionally aids, by any act or illegal omission, the doing of that thing. Explanation 1.- A person who, by willful misrepresentation, or by willful concealment of a material fact which is bound to disclose, voluntarily causes or procures, or attempts to cause or procure, a thing to be done, is said to instigate the doing of that thing. Illustration A, a public officer, is authorized by a warrant from a Court of Justice to apprehend Z. B, knowing that fact and also that C is not Z, willfully represents to A that C is Z, and thereby intentionally causes A to apprehend C. Here B abets by instigation the apprehension of C. Explanation 2. - Whoever, either prior to or at the time of the commission of an act, does anything in order to facilitate the commission of that act, and thereby facilitate the commission thereof, is said to aid the doing of that act.&#34; 
In the case of suicide, a person is liable for abetment if the person has inter alia instigated the deceased for committing suicide or has engaged in any conspiracy for committing suicide or intentionally aided the commission of suicide. CRL.A.18/2012  of 23 
Reference may be had to the judgment of the Supreme Court in Ramesh Kumar vs. State of Chhattisgarh : (2001) 9 SCC 618, wherein, the Supreme Court laid down as to what conduct would amount to incitement or instigation:- &#34;20. Instigation is to goad, urge forward, provoke, incite or encourage to do &#34;an act&#34;. To satisfy the requirement of instigation though it is not necessary that actual words must be used to that effect or what constitutes instigation must necessarily and specifically be suggestive of the consequence. Yet a reasonable certainty to incite the consequence must be capable of being spelt out. The present one is not a case where the accused had by his acts or omission or by a continued course of conduct created such circumstances that the deceased was left with no other option except to commit suicide in which case an instigation may have been inferred. A word uttered in the fit of anger or emotion without intending the consequences to actually follow cannot be said to be instigation. 
 In State of W.B. v. Orilal Jaiswal [(1994) 1 SCC 73 : 1994 SCC (Cri) 107] this Court has cautioned that the court should be extremely careful in assessing the facts and circumstances of each case and the evidence adduced in the trial for the purpose of finding whether the cruelty meted out to the victim had in fact induced her to end her life by committing suicide. If it transpires to the court that a victim committing suicide was hypersensitive to ordinary petulance, discord and differences in domestic life quite common to the society to which the victim belonged and such petulance, discord and differences were not expected to induce a similarly CRL.A.18/2012  of 23 circumstanced individual in a given society to commit suicide, the conscience of the court should not be satisfied for basing a finding that the accused charged of abetting the offence of suicide should be found guilty.&#34; (underlining supplied) 
Reference may also be had to the judgment of the Supreme Court in Pawan Kumar vs. State of H.P .: (2017) 7 SCC 780, wherein, the Supreme Court elaborated upon the expression abetment as under:- &#34;34. The word &#34;abetment&#34; has not been explained in Section 306 IPC. In this context, the definition of abetment as provided under Section 107 IPC is pertinent. Section 306 IPC seeks to punish those who abet the commission of suicide of other. Whether the person has abetted the commission of suicide of another or not is to be gathered from facts and circumstances of each case and to be found out by continuous conduct of the accused, involving his mental element. Such a requirement can be perceived from the reading of Section 107 IPC. Section 107 IPC reads as under: &#34;107. Abetment of a thing.********* &#34;Abetment&#34;, thus, means certain amount of active suggestion or support to do the act. 
Analysing the concept of &#34;abetment&#34;, as found in Section 107 IPC, a two-Judge Bench in Chitresh Kumar Chopra v. State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi) [Chitresh Kumar Chopra v. State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi), (2009) 16 SCC 605 : (2010) 3 SCC (Cri) 367] has held: (SCC p. 610, CRL.A.18/2012  of 23 paras 13 &amp; 15) &#34;13. As per the section, a person can be said to have abetted in doing a thing, if he, firstly, instigates any person to do that thing; or secondly, engages with one or more other person or persons in any conspiracy for the doing of that thing, if an act or illegal omission takes place in pursuance of that conspiracy, and in order to the doing of that thing; or thirdly, intentionally aids, by any act or illegal omission, the doing of that thing. Explanation to Section 107 states that any wilful misrepresentation or wilful concealment of material fact which he is bound to disclose, may also come within the contours of &#34;abetment&#34;. It is manifest that under all the three situations, direct involvement of the person or persons concerned in the commission of offence of suicide is essential to bring home the offence under Section 306 IPC. *** 
As per clause Firstly in the said section, a person can be said to have abetted in doing of a thing, who &#34;instigates&#34; any person to do that thing. The word &#34;instigate&#34; is not defined in IPC . The meaning of the said word was considered by this Court in Ramesh Kumar v. State of Chhattisgarh [Ramesh Kumar v. State of Chhattisgarh, (2001) 9 SCC 618 : 2002 SCC (Cri) 1088] .&#34; In the said authority, the learned Judges have referred to the pronouncement in Ramesh Kumar v. State of Chhattisgarh [Ramesh Kumar v. State of Chhattisgarh, (2001) 9 SCC 618 : 2002 SCC (Cri) 1088] . CRL.A.18/2012  of 23 
The word &#34;instigate&#34; literally means to goad, urge forward, provoke, incite or encourage to do an act. A person is said to instigate another person when he actively suggests or stimulates him to an act by any means or language, direct or indirect, whether it takes the form of express solicitation or of hints, insinuation or encouragement. Instigation may be in (express) words or may be by (implied) conduct. 
The word &#34;urge forward&#34; means to advise or try hard to persuade somebody to do something, to make a person to move more quickly in the particular direction, specially by pushing or forcing such person. Therefore, a person instigating another has to &#34;goad&#34; or &#34;urge forward&#34; the latter with the intention to provoke, incite or encourage the doing of an act by the latter. In order to prove abetment, it must be shown that the accused kept on urging or annoying the deceased by words, taunts until the deceased reacted. A casual remark or something said in routine or usual conversation should not be construed or misunderstood as &#34;abetment&#34;. 
Analysing further, in Randhir Singh v. State of Punjab [Randhir Singh v. State of Punjab, (2004) 13 SCC 129 : 2005 SCC (Cri) 56] , the Court has observed thus: (SCC p. 134, para 12) &#34;12. Abetment involves a mental process of instigating a person or intentionally aiding that person in doing of a thing. In cases of conspiracy also it would involve that mental process of entering into conspiracy for the doing of that thing. More active role which can be described as instigating or aiding the doing of a thing is required before a person can be said to be abetting the commission CRL.A.18/2012  of 23 of offence under Section 306 IPC.&#34; (emphasis supplied) 
In Praveen Pradhan v. State of Uttaranchal [Praveen Pradhan v. State of Uttaranchal, (2012) 9 SCC 734 : (2013) 1 SCC (Cri) 146] , it has been ruled: (SCC p. 741, para 18) &#34;18. In fact, from the above discussion it is apparent that instigation has to be gathered from the circumstances of a particular case. No straitjacket formula can be laid down to find out as to whether in a particular case there has been instigation which forced the person to commit suicide. In a particular case, there may not be direct evidence in regard to instigation which may have direct nexus to suicide. Therefore, in such a case, an inference has to be drawn from the circumstances and it is to be determined whether circumstances had been such which in fact had created the situation that a person felt totally frustrated and committed suicide. ...&#34; (emphasis supplied) 
In Amalendu Pal v. State of W.B. [Amalendu Pal v. State of W.B., (2010) 1 SCC 707 : (2010) 1 SCC (Cri) 896] , the Court, after referring to the authorities in Randhir Singh [Randhir Singh v. State of Punjab , (2004) 13 SCC 129 : 2005 SCC (Cri) 56] , Kishori Lal v. State of M.P. [Kishori Lal v. State of M.P., (2007) 10 SCC 797 : (2007) 3 SCC (Cri) 701] and Kishangiri Mangalgiri Goswami v. State of Gujarat [Kishangiri Mangalgiri Goswami v. State of Gujarat, (2009) 4 SCC 52 : (2009) 2 SCC (Cri) 62] , has held: (Amalendu Pal case [ Amalendu Pal v. State of W.B ., (2010) 1 SCC 707 : CRL.A.18/2012  of 23 (2010) 1 SCC (Cri) 896] , SCC p. 712, para 12) &#34;12. Thus, this Court has consistently taken the view that before holding an accused guilty of an offence under Section 306 IPC, the court must scrupulously examine the facts and circumstances of the case and also assess the evidence adduced before it in order to find out whether the cruelty and harassment meted out to the victim had left the victim with no other alternative but to put an end to her life. It is also to be borne in mind that in cases of alleged abetment of suicide there must be proof of direct or indirect acts of incitement to the commission of suicide. Merely on the allegation of harassment without there being any positive action proximate to the time of occurrence on the part of the accused which led or compelled the person to commit suicide, conviction in terms of Section 306 IPC is not sustainable.&#34; 
A two-Judge Bench in Netai Dutta v. State of W.B. [Netai Dutta v. State of W.B., (2005) 2 SCC 659 : 2005 SCC (Cri) 543] , while dwelling on the concept of abetment under Section 107 IPC especially in the context of suicide note, observed: (SCC p. 661, paras 6-7) &#34;6. In the suicide note, except referring to the name of the appellant at two places, there is no reference of any act or incidence whereby the appellant herein is alleged to have committed any wilful act or omission or intentionally aided or instigated the deceased Pranab Kumar Nag in committing the act of suicide. There is no case that the appellant has played any part or any role in any conspiracy, which ultimately instigated or resulted in the CRL.A.18/2012  of 23 commission of suicide by deceased Pranab Kumar Nag. 
Apart from the suicide note, there is no allegation made by the complainant that the appellant herein in any way was harassing his brother, Pranab Kumar Nag. The case registered against the appellant is without any factual foundation. The contents of the alleged suicide note do not in any way make out the offence against the appellant. The prosecution initiated against the appellant would only result in sheer harassment to the appellant without any fruitful result. In our opinion, the learned Single Judge seriously erred in holding that the first information report against the appellant disclosed the elements of a cognizable offence. There was absolutely no ground to proceed against the appellant herein. We find that this is a fit case where the extraordinary power under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is to be invoked. We quash the criminal proceedings initiated against the appellant and accordingly allow the appeal.&#34; 
At this juncture, we think it appropriate to reproduce two paragraphs from Chitresh Kumar Chopra [Chitresh Kumar Chopra v. State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi), (2009) 16 SCC 605 : (2010) 3 SCC (Cri) 367] . They are: (SCC p. 611, paras 16 &amp; 19) &#34;16. Speaking for the three-Judge Bench in Ramesh Kumar case [ Ramesh Kumar v. State of Chhattisgarh , (2001) 9 SCC 618 : 2002 SCC (Cri) 1088] , R.C. Lahoti, J. (as his Lordship then was) said that instigation is to goad, urge forward, CRL.A.18/2012  of 23 provoke, incite or encourage to do &#34;an act&#34;. To satisfy the requirement of &#34;instigation&#34;, though it is not necessary that actual words must be used to that effect or what constitutes &#34;instigation&#34; must necessarily and specifically be suggestive of the consequence. Yet a reasonable certainty to incite the consequence must be capable of being spelt out. Where the accused had, by his acts or omission or by a continued course of conduct, created such circumstances that the deceased was left with no other option except to commit suicide, in which case, an &#34;instigation&#34; may have to be inferred. A word uttered in a fit of anger or emotion without intending the consequences to actually follow, cannot be said to be instigation. *** 
As observed in Ramesh Kumar [Ramesh Kumar v. State of Chhattisgarh , (2001) 9 SCC 618 : 2002 SCC (Cri) 1088] , where the accused by his acts or by a continued course of conduct creates such circumstances that the deceased was left with no other option except to commit suicide, an &#34;instigation&#34; may be inferred. In other words, in order to prove that the accused abetted commission of suicide by a person, it has to be established that: (i) the accused kept on irritating or annoying the deceased by words, deeds or wilful omission or conduct which may even be a wilful silence until the deceased reacted or pushed or forced the deceased by his deeds, words or wilful omission or conduct to make CRL.A.18/2012  of 23 the deceased move forward more quickly in a forward direction; and (ii) that the accused had the intention to provoke, urge or encourage the deceased to commit suicide while acting in the manner noted above. Undoubtedly, presence of mens rea is the necessary concomitant of instigation.&#34; (emphasis in original) This Court again observed: (SCC pp. 611-12, para 20) 
... The question as to what is the cause of a suicide has no easy answers because suicidal ideation and behaviours in human beings are complex and multifaceted. Different individuals in the same situation react and behave differently because of the personal meaning they add to each event, thus accounting for individual vulnerability to suicide. Each individual&#39;s suicidability pattern depends on his inner subjective experience of mental pain, fear and loss of self-respect. Each of these factors are crucial and exacerbating contributor to an individual&#39;s vulnerability to end his own life, which may either be an attempt for self- protection or an escapism from intolerable self.&#34; (emphasis in original)&#34; (underlining supplied) 
Clearly in terms of the law laid down something more than mere apprehension of the deceased was necessary. There is no conduct attributable to the appellant to show that the appellant by his action instigated the deceased to commit suicide. Further perusal of CRL.A.18/2012  of 23 the evidence shows that apart from mere allegation no material had come to record that appellant was having any illicit relation with his sister-in-law. 
The reasoning given by the Trial Court for convicting the appellant under Section 306 IPC is that the deceased was feeling harassed at the hands of the accused persons as she was physically tortured by putting spirit on her and mentally tortured due to the illicit relation between the appellant and his sister-in-law. The Trial Court was of the view that the appellant and his sister-in-law were having illicit relations and further the accused persons failed to ensure a healthy and peaceful matrimonial atmosphere for the deceased and accordingly deceased was left without any option but to commit suicide. The Trial Court was of the view that the appellant jointly with the sister-in-law and severally abetted the offence of suicide. 
Once the Trial Court has come to a conclusion that there was no evidence that the deceased was subjected to any cruelty so as to drive her to commit suicide or to cause any injury to her life, limb and health, the Trial Court could not have in the facts of the case held the petitioner guilty sole on account of the fact that the deceased had committed suicide within seven years of her marriage. The testimony of the witnesses do not substantiate the commission of an offence under Section 306 by the appellant. 
I am of the view that the finding of the Trial Court, with regard CRL.A.18/2012  of 23 to the offence under Section 306 IPC is concerned, cannot be sustained from the evidence. The judgment of the Trial Court in so far as the offence under Section 306 IPC is concerned is clearly perverse. 
In view of the above, the appeal is allowed. The appellant is acquitted of the offence under Section 306 IPC. 
The bail bond furnished by the appellant is accordingly discharged and the surety released. 
Since this Court has examined the contention of the appellant on merits and found that no offence under Section 306 IPC is made out, the technical plea raised by learned counsel for the appellant that the appellant could not have been convicted under Section 306 IPC as he was not charge sheeted for the same has not been considered and is left open. 
Order dasti under the signature of the Court Master. SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J JANUARY 08, 2019 rk CRL.A.18/2012  of 23 Raj Kumar vs State on 13 February, 2019

Appellant impugns order on conviction dated 06.07.2018 convicting the Appellant for the offence punishable under section 308 / 34 IPC and order on sentence dated 09.07.2018 directing the Appellant to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of two years with fine of Rs 5000/- and in default thereof to undergo simple imprisonment of three months. CRL.A. 1091/2018  of 5 
Case of the prosecution is that on 05.09.2012 at around 9:00 pm Appellant along with 4-5 other persons physically assaulted the complainant with wooden sticks, iron pipes and glass bottles outside his house causing injury on his head and other body parts. It is alleged that the quarrel between the parties took place over possession of land. 
In support of its case, prosecution examined 11 witnesses. The statement of the injured/complainant (PW1) was corroborated by the statement of his wife (PW4) and a tenant (PW5). Further medical evidence brought on record by Dr. Mohd. Parvej Salam (PW7), Dr. Bhavesh Chadha (PW9) and Dr. Jaskaran (PW10) supported the case of the prosecution and proved the nature of injuries sustained. 
Based on the evidence on record the Trial court inter-alia held as under: &#34;The prosecution has given a clear account of events and has proved that accused Raj Kumar had assaulted and injured Rakesh pitilessly. The prosecution has been successfully able to prove its case within the ambit of provisions of Section 308 IPC beyond reasonable doubt against accused Raj Kumar.&#34; 
Appellant impugns his conviction and sentence. It is inter alia contended that the Trial Court has erred in not appreciating that there were material contradictions in the version given by different prosecution witnesses and the prosecution had failed to establish the involvement of the petitioner. CRL.A. 1091/2018  of 5 
Pending the disposal of appeal, Appellant has filed subject application under section 360 Cr.P.C and under section 4 of Probation of Offenders Act seeking benefit under it. 
It is submitted by Learned counsel for the Appellant, that the Appellant is the sole bread earner of the family. He has the responsibility of his minor son and aged parents who are suffering from various old age ailments. The family of the Appellant has financial stringency. It is difficult for them to meet their day to day expenditure and the education of the minor son is getting hampered due to economic condition. 
Report was called for from the probation officer. Report dated 01.02.2019 submitted by the probation officer shows that enquiry made confirm that accused has aged parents, wife and a minor son in his family. Father of the accused is medically unfit and requires medical treatment. Accused is the sole bread earner of the family. 
Record reveals that accused has no criminal antecedents except the subject case. No behavioural pattern was observed and has no habit of any kind of addiction. Probation officer has reported that the accused is repentant of his past misdeed and there does not appear to be a future possibility of committing crime or organize any criminal activity. Report further indicates that the accused has been rectified and is ready to comeback to society and his family. CRL.A. 1091/2018  of 5 
Reliance may be had to the decision in Rattan Lal vs. State of Punjab : AIR 1965 SC 444, wherein the Supreme Court noted the philosophy behind the grant of probation:- &#34;The Act is a milestone in the progress of the modern liberal trend of reform in the field of penology. It is the result of the recognition of the doctrine that the object of criminal law is more to reform the individual offender than to punish him........&#34; 
Court has to consider the circumstances of the case, nature of offence and character of the offender while exercising the power which is discretionary. Powers under Section 4 of the Probation of Offenders Act vest with the Court when any person is found guilty of the offence committed, not punishable with death or imprisonment for life. This power can be exercised by the Court even at appellate or Revisional stage.1 
Though Appellant has been convicted under Sections 308 / 34 of the IPC but in the facts and circumstances of the present case and after considering the nature of the offence, the character of the offender, the report of the Probationary Officer, Appellant herein leading a disciplined life on the reformed path and having a fixed place of abode, I am of the view that this is a fit case for extending the benefit of Section 4 of Probation of Offenders Act to the Appellant. 1 Sitaram Paswan v. State of Bihar ; AIR 2005 SC 3534 CRL.A. 1091/2018  of 5 
Therefore, while confirming the conviction of appellant under Section 308 / 34 of IPC, it is directed that he be released on probation on entering into a bond, within a period of two weeks from today, in the sum of Rs. 10,000/- with one surety of like amount, before the concerned trial Court, for keeping peace and good behaviour for a period of one year. In case Appellant does not maintain good conduct during the period of probation then he shall be liable to undergo the substantive sentence as awarded by the Trial Court. 
Applications and the Appeal are disposed of in the above terms. 
Order Dasti under the Signatures of Court Master SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J FEBRUARY 13, 2019/HJ CRL.A. 1091/2018  of 5 Shiva @ Gaurav &amp; Anr. vs The State (Govt. Of Nct Of Delhi) on 26 July, 2019

Appellants impugn judgment on conviction dated 12.04.2018 and order on sentence dated 13.04.2018, whereby, appellants Shiva @ Gaurav and Shibu @ Shiv Nath have been convicted of an offence under Section 323 / 34 IPC and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of 6 months and Appellants Sunny and Avinash @ Honey have been convicted of an offence under Section 304 (Part II) read with Section 34 IPC and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of 3 years and to pay fine of Rs.25,000/- and in default to further undergo simple imprisonment for a period of 6 months. 
The case of the prosecution is that information was received that an injured had been taken to AIIMS Trauma Centre. The injured was found unfit for statement. 
One of the friends of the injured, who was found fit for statement, given a statement that the victim along with his friends were playing cricket. The appellants were members of the opposite cricket team. The victim was bowling and there was a dispute with regard to the declaration of a ball as a &#39;no ball&#39;, consequent to which a fight took place. 
It is alleged that Avinash @ Honey, who was carrying a cricket bat hit the victim with the bat and Sunny removed the cricket stump and also blindly hit Ajay with the same. Shiva and Shibu are alleged to have removed the stumps and hit the victim with the stumps. The Crl.A..515/2018 &amp;  of 6 Crl.A.517/2018 victim expired after four days. 
The Trial Court based on evidence found the appellants Shiva @ Gaurav and Shibu @ Shiv Nath guilty of the offence under Sections 323 / 34 IPC and the appellants Sunny and Avinash @ Honey guilty of the offence under Section 304 (Part II)/34 IPC . 
Learned counsel for the appellants submits that the appellants are first time young offenders and on the day of the incident Shiva was aged 19 years, Shibu 22 years and Sunny and Avinash 23 and 22 years respectively. He submits that the appellant Shiva was a student. 
Learned counsel for the appellants submits that from the prosecution evidence it is apparent that there was no premeditated intention to cause either any injury or to cause death and the dispute occurred while playing cricket on the spur of the moment and in the heat of the moment subject incident happened, which led to the unfortunate death of the victim. 
Learned counsel for the appellants further submits that the Trial Court had even referred the matter to the Delhi Legal Services Authority for grant of compensation to the family members of the deceased under the Victim Compensation Scheme. 
Learned APP for the State, under instructions from the Investigating Officer, submits that he is not aware as to whether any compensation under the Victim Compensation Scheme was disbursed Crl.A..515/2018 &amp;  of 6 Crl.A.517/2018 or not. 
On perusal of the record, I am satisfied that there is no infirmity in the view taken by the Trial Court in returning a finding of guilt as against the appellants for the sections that they have been found guilty of. However, perusal of the Nominal Roll of the appellants shows that Shiva has undergone 5 months 5 days of incarceration out of 6 months, Shibu has undergone 5 months 4 days of incarceration out of 6 months, Sunny has undergone 2 years 6 months 28 days of incarceration out of 3 years and Avinash has undergone 2 years 5 months 14 days of incarceration out of 3 years. 
As per learned counsel for the appellants, the compensation directed to be deposited of Rs.25,000/- each by Sunny and Avinash has already been deposited and disbursed to the family of the victim. 
Keeping in view the totality of facts and circumstances of the case and also the fact that at the time of the incident the appellants were aged between 19 and 23 years and further taking into account the mitigating circumstances that they are first time offenders and there is no allegation that they have indulged in any further criminal activity and further the fact that the disputes occurred on the spur of the moment without any premeditation, I am of the view that the interest of justice would be served, where while upholding the order of conviction, order of sentence is modified and reduced to the period already undergone by the appellants. Crl.A..515/2018 &amp;  of 6 Crl.A.517/2018 
Further, it is directed that the appellants shall, as a way of further service to the community, plant 50 trees each and for the same they shall report to the Deputy Conservator of Forests (North), who shall assign them duties to plant 50 trees each in Delhi. The plants/trees shall be of deciduous indigenous variety with a nursery age of three and a half years, and a height of at least six feet. Depending upon the soil type and topography, the DCF may consider the following types of trees for plantation:- (i) Gular (Cluster Fig) (ii) Kadamba (Burflower Tree) (iii) Pilkhan (White Fig) (iv) Jaamun (Black Plum) (v) Bargad (Banyan Tree) (vi) Mango (vii) Amaltas (Golden Shower) (viii) Mahua (Butter Tree) [Indian Laburnum] (ix) Putranjiva (x) Badh (xi) Sagwan (Teak Wood) (xii) Safed Siris (Albizia Procera) (xiii) Kala Siris (xiv) Anjeer (xv) Kathal- Jackfruit (xvi) Palash (xvii) Arni (xviii) Bistendu (xix) Rohida (xx) Medshingi 
An affidavit of compliance shall be filed by the petitioners as well as the DCF on or before 26.09.2019, failing which the Registry shall list the case for directions. Aerial pictures, prior to and after the afore-directed plantation, shall be obtained by the DCF and filed along with his affidavit. Similar quarterly updates shall be obtained by him to monitor and ensure the upkeep of the said plantation. A Report of the same shall be filed six months after the plantation, along with Crl.A..515/2018 &amp;  of 6 Crl.A.517/2018 fresh photographs to show the health/status of the plantation. In case of default, the Registry shall list the case for directions. 
Further, the Delhi State Legal Services Authority shall also file an affidavit indicating as to whether any compensation has been paid to the family of the deceased in terms of the judgment of the Trial Court dated 13.04.2018 and if not, then the order be complied with within a period of four weeks from today. 
The appeals and pending applications are, accordingly, disposed of in the above terms. 
Copy of the order be communicated to the concerned Superintendent, Jail, Deputy Conservator of Forests (North) and the Secretary Delhi State Legal Services Authority. 
Order Dasti under signatures of the Court Master. SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J JULY 26, 2019 st Crl.A..515/2018 &amp;  of 6 Crl.A.517/2018 Babli @ Shakuntla Devi vs State on 21 August, 2019

Appellant impugns judgment dated 16.05.2018 and order on sentence dated 24.05.2018 whereby appellant has been convicted of an offence under Section 307 / 34 IPC and sentenced to undergo RI for a period of three years and to pay a fine of Rs.1 lakh and in default of payment of fine to undergo SI for a period of six months. 
The allegations in the FIR are that the appellant along with her son had a fight with the victim. The role ascribed to the appellant was that she caught hold of the victim while her son started hitting the victim with a CRL.A. 750/2018  of 5 Gainti (Pickaxe). It is further alleged that the appellant instigated her son to hit the victim. 
Son of the appellant was a juvenile and was separately tried before the Juvenile Justice Board. 
The Trial Court by the impugned judgment on conviction has held that the accused had clear cut intention as well as knowledge to cause death and accordingly held the appellant guilty of an offence under Section 307 / 34 of the IPC. The Trial Court was of the view that prosecution had proved the case beyond reasonable doubt. 
Learned counsel for the appellant points out that the Trial Court has erred in holding that there was an intention to cause death or cause an injury which the accused knew would in all likelihood cause death. Learned counsel submits that the Trial Court has erred in incorrectly appreciating the evidence and ascribing motive or knowledge to the appellant. 
Learned counsel further submits that the role ascribed to the appellant was of exalting and holding the victim whereas the role ascribed to the son, who was a juvenile, was of actually causing the injury. 
Learned counsel submits that the juvenile was tried before the Juvenile Justice Board and on appreciation of the evidence the Board, by judgment dated 04.06.2015, held that it did not seem that the juvenile assaulted the victim with the intention to commit murder. The Board further held that the juvenile inflicted injuries upon the victim in a sudden street fight. The Board acquitted the juvenile of the offence under Section 307 CRL.A. 750/2018  of 5 IPC and convicted him for the offence punishable under Section 323 / 34 . 
Learned counsel further submits that the appellant has been convicted solely by application of Section 34 i.e. common intention. He submits that for the purpose of common intention, more than one individual is required. 
Learned counsel submits that since the main accused, who inflicted injuries, has been convicted only of an offence under Section 323 IPC, appellant could not have been convicted for an offence under Section 307 IPC by applying Section 34 IPC. 
Learned counsel submits that no appeal was preferred by the State or the victim against the judgment dated 04.06.2015 in the case of the juvenile and said judgment has become final. Learned counsel further submits that in view of the said judgment, the appellant at best could have been convicted for an offence under Section 323 IPC. 
Perusal of the judgment of the Board dated 04.06.2015 in the case of the juvenile shows that on appreciation of evidence, the Board was of the view that no intention or knowledge to cause death was attributable to the juvenile that his action is likely to cause death or injury of such a nature as is likely to cause death. Since neither the State nor the victim has filed an appeal against the said order, the finding in the case of juvenile, that there was no intention to cause death, has become final. 
Clearly, as the juvenile/co accused has been convicted for an offence under Section 323 IPC, the appellant could not have been convicted for an CRL.A. 750/2018  of 5 offence under Section 307 IPC by application of Section 34 IPC. 
Accordingly, the impugned judgment clearly suffers from an infirmity and the conviction of the appellant under Section 307 IPC is liable to be modified to a conviction under Section 323 / 34 IPC. 
In view of the above, the impugned judgment dated 16.05.2018 is modified. The conviction of the appellant is converted from conviction for an offence under Section 307 / 34 IPC to Section 323 / 34 IPC. 
Appellant has also filed an application under Section 482 Cr.P.C seeking compounding of the subject offence under Section 323 IPC. It is contended that the victim is a neighbour and the victim and the appellant, with their families, have been living in the same locality for the last 25 years. It is submitted that after the subject incident in the year 2013, parties have been living harmoniously as neighbours and no further incident of quarrel has ever taken place. 
Parties have settled their disputes with the intervention of elders and other neighbours and with the intention of restoring peace and harmony in the locality they have settled their disputes and complainant has agreed to compound the subject offence. 
The complainant is present in Court in person, represented by counsel and identified by the IO. Complainant submits that she has settled with the appellant and has no objection to the compounding of the subject offence. As per the settlement, appellant has deposited an amount of Rs.70,000/- with the Trial Court and the said amount along with interest CRL.A. 750/2018  of 5 accrued, if any thereon has to be paid to the victim towards her medical expenditure. 
Under Section 320 Cr.P.C, Section 323 IPC is a compoundable offence at the instance of the victim. Since the victim is present in Court and has agreed to compounding of the said offence, in my view it would be in the interest of justice to compound the subject offence. The offence is accordingly compounded. Appellant is acquitted of the said offence. 
The Trial Court is directed to release the compensation amount of Rs.70,000/- deposited by the petitioner, along with interest accrued thereon, if any, in favour of the complainant/victim. 
Appeal and pending applications are accordingly disposed of in the above terms. 
Order Dasti under signatures of the Court Master. AUGUST 21, 2019 SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J rk CRL.A. 750/2018  of 5 Bijender Singh Lather vs Govt. Of Nct Of Delhi on 6 December, 2019

Allowed, subject to all just exceptions. 
Application is disposed of. Bail Appln.3023/2019 &amp; Crl.M.A. 42062/2019 
Vide the present petition, the petitioner seeks direction thereby to grant anticipatory bail to the Petitioner in FIR No.59 of 2019 dated 04.04.2019 Police Station, Economic Offences Wing, Mandir Marg, New Delhi under Sections 406 , 420 &amp; 120-B of IPC. Bail Appln.3023/2019  of 10 
The brief facts leading to filing of the said petition are that Prabhu Shanti Real Estate Pvt. Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as &#34;Company&#34;), a private limited company incorporated under the Companies Act , 1956 in the year 2014, acted as a guarantor to a loan facility obtained by one of the sister concern Society of the Company i.e. Prabhu Dayal Memorial Religious Educational Association. The said Society defaulted in repayment of the loan to the lending Bank in pursuance to which the lending bank filed an application under section 7 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 before the National Company Law Tribunal. The said Tribunal vide order dated 13.06.2018, initiated Corporate Insolvency Resolution Proceedings against the Company and appointed an Interim Resolution Professional to take over the management of the Company. However, the Petitioner made all endeavours to deliver possession of the flats to the Home Buyers including the complainant. The constructions of flats was completed up to 75-80% by June 2018, however, the Petitioner lost control of the company vide insolvency admission order passed by the NCLT, Delhi on 13.06.2018 against the Company. Thereafter, the Company preferred an Appeal before the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) against the order dated 13.06.2018 passed on the ground that the Company was willing to Bail Appln.3023/2019  of 10 settle the matter with the Lending Bank. But the Complainant, Smt.Suman Solanki filed the Complaint against the Company after passing of the order dated 13.06.2018 by the NCLT, i.e. when the Petitioner or any other Director of the Company was not in control of the management of the company. However, Petitioner though being a minority shareholder, took all necessary and active steps to regain control of the company in order to complete the construction of the real estate project and to deliver possession to the Complainant. In an endeavour to regain control of the Company, the Petitioner in his personal capacity, settled with the Lender Bank namely AU Small Finance Pvt. Ltd. vide settlement agreement dated 24.07.2018 and paid an amount of Rs. 2,32,00,000/- to the lending bank as part of the settlement amount. The said settlement agreement executed between the Petitioner and the lending bank was relied by the Petitioner before the NCLAT. However, the said tribunal refused to withdraw the Insolvency Proceedings against the Company, as there were other financial creditors and a Committee of Creditors had also been constituted by the Interim Resolution Professional. However, several homebuyers including the Complainant filed a Writ Petition before the Hon&#39;ble Supreme Court of India bearing number W.P.(C) 914/2018 and vide its order dated 03.12.2018, Bail Appln.3023/2019  of 10 disposed of the said Writ Petition in view of an out of Court Settlement being entered into between the petitioners therein and the Company. On 08.02.2019, the homebuyers filed an M.A.No.286 of 2019 in W.P.(C) No.914 of 2018 and attempted to project as if there was not any settlement but Supreme Court of India out rightly rejected the application for modification of the order dated 03.12.2018. 
Mr.Siddharth Luthra, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner submits that FIR No. 59/2019 got registered against the petitioner along-with other accused at the behest of a Complaint filed by the Complainant, Smt.Suman Solanki with Police Station: EOW, Mandir Marg. The Complainant is one of the home buyers who had purchased a flat in the Project &#34;PDM HI-TECH HOMES&#34; of the Company. After filing of the Complaint and during the pendency of investigation, the Complainant also filed a Writ Petition before this court bearing W.P(Crl.) No. 349 of 2019, by suppressing and concealing several relevant and material facts. The Complainant had not made the Petitioner a party to the said Writ Petition and the Petitioner did not get an opportunity to address this Court with correct and true facts. When Petitioner got aware of the fact that a Writ Petition has been filed by the complainant against the Company and the Bail Appln.3023/2019  of 10 Petitioner, the petitioner filed an impleadment application in the said Writ Petition and the same was allowed vide order dated 12.04.2019. Since the registration of FIR, the Petitioner appeared before the investigation authorities i.e. Economic Offences Wing police station at Mandir Marg on 
03.2019, 01.04.2019, 22.08.2019, 05.10.2019, 12.10.2019 and has co- operated with the authorities at every stage including providing all documentations as and when asked for by the authorities, to ensure a fair and just investigation of the case. 
He further submits that on 01.08.2019, the petitioner proposed the settlement in terms of the proposal and the representative of the home buyer in principle agreed to the same. The said Writ Petition was disposed of by this Court vide Order dated 07.11.2019, thereby allowing the investigation to take its own course. The Company through the Petitioner, submitted a proposal for settlement and resolution before the fifth meeting of Committee of Creditors of the Company held on 21.09.2019 constituted by the Resolution Professional. 
He also submits that if the anticipatory bail is granted to the petitioner, he can pursue the proceedings pending before the various authorities and courts and it would be in the interest of the buyers so that he Bail Appln.3023/2019  of 10 would be able to complete the project. 
On the other hand, learned APP appearing on behalf of the State submits that during the course of investigation, all the bank accounts of accused company and other directors have been freezed to stop the further movement of invested amount of the investors. Embargo proceedings have been initiated upon the personal properties owned by the accused company and its directors. In order to prevent the escape of the accused Directors, necessary measures have been taken against all five Directors of the accused company. During investigation, Sh. Abhishek Anand, IRP appointed by NCLT Court, has joined the investigation and provided the &#39;Forensic Audit Report&#39; of the project in question wherein the following observations were found:-  Advance of Rs. 393 Lacs is outstanding from Bhagwati Tiles against a total purchase of Rs. 259.92 Lacs during June 2016 to June 2018.  Bogus invoices raised on the same date amounting to Rs. 125.24 Lacs during June 2016 to June 2018 from HRKH Builders Pvt. Ltd.  Accused company used to pay Monthly Director remuneration to the tune of Rs. 13.90 Lacs per month during FY 2016-17 and Rs. 8.51 Lacs per month during FY 2017-18. Whereas, company reported loss Bail Appln.3023/2019  of 10 of Rs. 1,91,76,525.81/- in FY 2016-17 and further years.  Bogus and dubious cash payments of Rs. 169.16 Lacs during June 2016 to June 2018 as Labour Charges and Rs. 234 Lacs against purchase of Rodi during June 2016 to June 2018.  Accused company has defaulted to pay off government duty and taxes amounting to Rs. 73.90 Lacs, which are as follows:  PF of Rs. 4,80,662/- has not been paid since Oct 2016.  ESIC of Rs. 1,01,729/- has not been paid since Oct 2016.  Balance TDS of Rs. 68,08,034/- has not been paid since April 2017-18.  Accused company does not maintain Stock register, resultantly the actual position of stock and raw material regarding inward and outward stock cannot be ascertained. 
The petitioner/accused Bijender Singh is one of the key management personnel and authorized signatory in this company. He has received an amount of Rs. 66 Lac per annum as salary during FY 2015-16 and 2016-17, as director, from the alleged company. Whereas, the company reported loss of Rs. 1,91,76,525.81/- in FY 2016-17 and further years. Inter related parties transactions were done with Bhagwati Tiles, Bharti Techno Medical Bail Appln.3023/2019  of 10 Enterprises, AMI Prabhu Developers Pvt. Ltd., PDM Religious and Educational Association, Sangam Infra Estates Pvt. Ltd. and HRHK Builders Pvt. Ltd. without any legal agreement for services rendered by them. However, no legal agreement was found executed between accused company and other parties for short term loans and advances of Rs. 11,71,96,308/- in FY 2015-16. As per reply from DTPC, Chandigarh, the alleged company granted licence No. 179 of 2007 on 25.04.2007 for 8.97 Acres of land at Bahadurgarh, Haryana for total of 402 flats. The alleged company further applied for revised building plans on 16.12.2015 for total of 430 flats, which was approved by DTCP on 19.01.2016. Major changes in Tower-6 and Tower-7, where 28 flats were added and in Tower-7, 9th and 10th floors consist of 8 flats which do not exist in previous plan approved by DTCP on 25.04.2007 amended on 16.12.2015. Flat No. T-7/A-9 in Tower-7 at 9th floor was booked by homebuyer Sh. Balwant Singh on 28.02.2013 by paying advance money of Rs. 4,00,000/- through Axis Bank Cheque No. 081605. Later, this flat was sold by builder to homebuyer Sh.Hawa Singh Joon on 25.06.2014, who paid advance of Rs. 2,00,000/- through Canara Bank cheque No. 632184. It shows that accused company, M/s Prabhu Shanti Real Estate Pvt. Ltd. sold Flat No. T-7/A-9 in Tower-7 at 9th floor Bail Appln.3023/2019  of 10 before approval granted by DTCP. 
Learned APP further submits that during the course of investigation, some of the victims have been examined and their statement have been recorded and notices under section 41A Cr.P.C. were issued to alleged person namely Bijender Singh Lather, petitioner herein, including Joginder Singh Lather, Ram Niwas, Sajjan Singh Beniwal and Bhawana Lather, to which the petitioner joined the investigation but he has not provided any specific information which may help the investigation to get the trail of the investment of the complainant and tried to shift the liabilities to other directors. Therefore, custodial interrogation of the petitioner/accused is required for the following reasons:- 
Investigation of the case is at initial stage. 
Accused did not provide any relevant documents showing utilisation of investment of complainant on proposed project. 
To unearth the conspiracy hatched by the accused persons and his associates. 
To recover the cheated amount and to trace the money trail. 
To decide the role of other persons/company, who are the beneficiaries of the cheated amount as per bank account statement Bail Appln.3023/2019  of 10 of alleged company. 
Keeping in view the serious allegations mentioned above against the petitioner, who has played key role in the present case and due to the material documents which are required to be seized from the petitioner, for which custodial interrogation is required, therefore, I am not inclined to grant anticipatory bail to the petitioner. The petition is dismissed. 
Pending applications also stands disposed of.X vs State &amp; Anr. on 1 July, 2019

These revision petitions - one filed by the State and the other filed by the prosecutrix, impugn order on charge dated 30.07.2016, whereby the trial court while framing charges against the co-accused has discharged respondent no. 2 qua the offences under Sections 376- D and Section 506 of the Indian Penal Code. 
Subject FIR No. 334/2014, Police Station Hauz Khas was registered under Sections 376-D / 506 of the IPC. The prosecutrix had alleged that she was uneducated and presently unemployed and used to visit Sai Baba Mandir at Lodhi Colony. 
It is alleged that about 4½ years ago she met one Raj Narain and she requested him to search for an employment for her. He about 2½ years ago, on the pretext of getting her an employment, took her to D-Block, Hauz Khas and against her wishes made physical relations with her. Thereafter it is alleged that he took her to one Dr. Ralia and stated that he would help her in getting a job and about 2 years ago Crl.Rev.P.308/2017 &amp; 382/2017  of 7 Dr. Ralia took advantage of her and against her wishes made physical relations with her. 
Thereafter it is alleged that Dr. Ralia and Raj Narain told her that they had made a video and she should do as they told her. Thereafter it is alleged that they introduced her to one Vikas and Narang and about two years ago even they made physical relations with her in a flat at D-Block Hauz Khas. Thereafter it is alleged that they continued to make physical relations with her. 
It is alleged that on 29.03.2014 (the day of complaint) at about 
30 to 1.00 PM, Raj Narain met her at Khan Pur and informed her that Dr. Ralia had arranged an employment for her and he took her on a scooty to Lodhi Road Sai Baba Mandir where they met Dr. Ralia. Thereafter, Dr. Ralia took her in his car to D-Block Hauz Khas where even Raj Narain came and both of them made physical relations with her taking turns. Thereafter Dr. Ralia dropped her in his car at Sarojini Nagar. She made then a call to the police control room and made a complaint on which subject FIR was registered. 
Statement of the prosecutrix was also recorded under Section 164 Cr. P.C. In her statement recorded on 30.03.2014, the prosecutrix in addition to what she had earlier alleged, stated that Dr. Ralia had sent her to his friend in Kalkaji who also made physical relations with her against her wish. 
In her statement under Section 161 Cr. P.C. dated 23.04.2014 Crl.Rev.P.308/2017 &amp; 382/2017  of 7 she had stated that Dr. Ralia had sent her to his friend - Dr. Man Mohan at Kalkaji who made physical relations with her. In her supplementary statement dated 22.02.2014 she once again reiterated that Ralia had sent her to his friends - Narang and Dr. Man Mohan in kalkaji and they made physical relations with her. 
It is alleged by the petitioner that the said friend of Dr. Ralia in Kalkaji who was named as Man Mohan is Dr. Narender Mohan - respondent No. 2 herein. 
The trial court in the impugned order after the perusal of the record found that there was no mention of the name of respondent no. 2 in the first version of the prosecutrix, which was given on 
03.2014. It is only in her subsequent statement under Section 164 Cr. P.C. that she stated that Ralia sent her to his friend at Kalkaji. However, once again no name of that individual was given. 
In her subsequent statement she had alleged that the said individual was Man Mohan. Ralia during his interrogation had stated that his friend in Kalkaji is named Dr. Narender Mohan - respondent no. 2 herein. 
Dr. Narender Mohan duly joined investigation and stated that the prosecutrix had come to him for collecting money for charity/NGO and he had issued cheques in the name of the NGO of the prosecutrix. 
As per the charge sheet, prosecutrix has not made any statement Crl.Rev.P.308/2017 &amp; 382/2017  of 7 that Dr. Narender Mohan is the same individual about whom she has stated that she was sent to kalkaji. No identification of respondent No. 2 has been done either in the police station or through Test Identification Parade. 
There is no medical or forensic evidence against respondent no. 
No date, month or year of the incident has been mentioned. Trial court found that there was no material to charge Dr. Narender Mohan of the said offence under Section 376-D and Section 506 of the IPC. 
Perusal of the record as also the statement of the prosecutrix show that her allegations are completely vague in nature and are spread over a period of 4½ years. No specific details, time and date of incident is mentioned. Vague allegations are levelled by her against several individuals. It may be pertinent to mention that respondent no. 2 is aged about 79 years, Dr. Ralia is aged about 76 years and Mr. Narang is aged about 80 years. 
No doubt, mere statement of the prosecutrix is sufficient for framing of a charge, however, prior to the statement being acted upon, the court has to be satisfied that the same is reliable. 
In the present case, the allegations levelled by the prosecutrix are completely vague. She has alleged that the offence started over 2½ ago and she was repeatedly sent to different individuals who made physical relations with her against her wishes. She has alleged that a video was taken. However, during investigation, on forensic Crl.Rev.P.308/2017 &amp; 382/2017  of 7 examination of the mobile phone seized from the co-accused no such video or incriminating material was recovered. Her allegations do not inspire confidence. 
In so far as respondent no. 2 is concerned, he is neither named in the FIR nor in the supplementary statement. Her allegations against the respondent no. 2 are also completely vague. There is no date, place or time mentioned as to when the alleged offence had happened. She has merely in one breath stated that co-accused had sent her to his friend at Kalkaji who made physical relations with her against her wishes. The allegations are completely vague and unreliable. There is unexplained delay in lodging of the complaint. Her conduct during the said period of 2 ½ years makes her version completely unreliable. 
Perusal of the record does not even raise grave suspicion in so far as the respondent no. 2 is concerned for framing of charge. 
Supreme Court in State Vs. Arun Kumar &amp; Anr. 2014 SCC Online SC 1018 has held that even at the stage of charge, if two views are possible and one of the views gives rise to suspicion only as distinct, from grave suspicion, the Court would be empowered to discharge accused at that stage. 
There is no medical or forensic evidence available against respondent no. 2, no TIP has been conducted and there is no identification of respondent no. 2 nor is he named in any statement made by the prosecutrix. There is nothing to show that respondent - Crl.Rev.P.308/2017 &amp; 382/2017  of 7 Narender Mohan is the individual who is named as Man Mohan by the prosecutrix in her supplementary statement. Even otherwise the allegations against respondent no. 2 are completely vague and unsubstantiated. The version given by the prosecutrix is ex-facie unreliable and does not give rise to suspicion leave alone grave suspicion against respondent no. 2. 
In view of the above, I find no infirmity in the view taken by the trial court that there is no prima facie case made out against respondent no. 2. In my view, the trial court has &#39;on correct appreciation of the material on record&#39; discharged respondent no. 2. 
Accordingly, I find no merits in the petitions. The petitions are accordingly dismissed. 
It is clarified that the observations contained herein are specific only to respondent no. 2 and would have no bearing on the case against the other co-accused. 
Order Dasti under signatures of the Court Master. SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J JULY 01, 2019 &#39;rs&#39; Crl.Rev.P.308/2017 &amp; 382/2017  of 7 Ram Singh vs State Of Nct Of Delhi on 18 March, 2019

Petitioner seeks regular bail in FIR No.207/2016 under Sections 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 / 120B IPC, Police Station Connaught Place. 
Subject FIR was registered on a complaint made by the Corporation Bank. The allegations in the FIR are that a cheque was given for the purposes of RTGS transfer of Rs.27,20,000/- to the account of M/s. S.N. Trading. RTGS was given effect to and the amount was transferred. Subsequently, another cheque was received along with a request for transfer of Rs.29,90,000/- through RTGS to BAIL APPLN.596/2019  of 4 M/s. S.S. Traders, however, during inquiry by the Bank Officials, no confirmed answer was received from the telephone number mentioned in the request for RTGS and the RTGS was not affected. Subsequently, a compliant was received from the account holder that he had not instructed transfer of any fund through RTGS to any account. The account holder further pointed out to the bank that the original cheques which had been allegedly received by the Bank with request for RTGS were still in the possession of the account holder. Subject complaint was lodged. 
During investigation, it transpired that both the cheques, which had been submitted to the Bank, were forged. One Mehandi Hassan, who had allegedly presented the cheques was interrogated. He claimed that he had taken the cheques to the Bank for transfer of funds through RTGS. In his disclosure statement, he stated that the cheques were handed over by him by one Jitender @ Jitu. Jitender @ Jitu in his confessional/disclosure statement is alleged to have stated that he was introduced to the present petitioner, who knew some employee of Corporation Bank through whom he would obtain information of gullible accounts where SMS facility had not been registered and the cheques were forged and fabricated by the petitioner and handed over to him as well as Mehandi Hassan for being withdrawn from the Bank. 
Case of the prosecution is that the co-accused Jitender @ Jitu in BAIL APPLN.596/2019  of 4 his disclosure statement named the petitioner and when a raid was conducted at the house of the petitioner, one blank cheque also belonging to the same series was recovered from the house of the petitioner and it also bore the signatures of the account holder. As per the prosecution, the recovery of the cheque from the house of the petitioner showed his involvement in the subject offence. 
Leaned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner has been falsely implicated. He submits that apart from the alleged disclosure/confessional statement, there is no material to connect the petitioner to the subject offence. He further submits that the alleged recovery of a cheque from the house of the petitioner is an alleged recovery made in a confessional statement in another FIR and the alleged recovery has been made from the house of the petitioner when he was admittedly not present. 
Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that there is no recovery or disclosure/confessional statement of the petitioner of his involvement in the subject offence or any recovery consequent to such alleged disclosure/confessional statement. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner has already been enlarged on bail in the other FIR. 
Petitioner has been in custody since 08.02.2019. 
Status report has been filed. The same is taken on record. BAIL APPLN.596/2019  of 4 
Without commenting on the merits of the case and keeping in view the totality of facts and circumstances of the case and the fact that charge sheet has already been filed and trial is likely to take substantial time, I am satisfied that the petitioner has made out a case for grant of regular bail. 
Accordingly, on petitioner furnishing a bail bond in the sum of Rs.25,000/- with one surety of the like amount to the satisfaction of the Trial Court, petitioner shall be released on bail, if not required in any other case. Petitioner shall not do anything which may prejudice either the trial or prosecution witnesses. Petitioner shall furnish his permanent residential address as well as his mobile number to the Investigating Officer. Petitioner shall not change his residence without prior intimation to the Trial Court. 
Petition is allowed in the above terms. 
Order Dasti under the signatures of the Court Master. SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J MARCH 18, 2019 st BAIL APPLN.596/2019  of 4 State Nct Of Delhi vs Jatin Kapoor on 23 August, 2019

Allowed, subject to all just exceptions. 
This application is, accordingly, disposed of. CRL.REV.P. 731/2017 and CRL.M.A 16080/2019 
Vide the present revision petition, the petitioner - State seeks setting aside the part of the order dated 04.05.2017 whereby the respondent was discharged for offence U/s 313 IPC and consequently direct framing of charges U/s 313 IPC . 
The present revision petition is filed on the ground that learned trial court while passing the impugned order dated 04.05.2017 ignored the fact that there is a specific allegation in the complaint of the complainant that the CRL.REV.P. 731/2017  of 6 accused-respondent did not want the child as he was afraid that if the child is born, the complainant may claim 2/3rd share in his properties and assets. 
Learned trial court also ignored the fact that the complainant in complaint dated 10.06.2013 and statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. had categorically attributed that on the intervening night of 5/6 June, 2011, she was hit on her abdomen by her husband and she was dragged out of the bed as a result thereof her condition worsened and she had to go to the hospital in this regard wherein doctor told her to go to shelter home or to her parent&#39;s house in India. 
Learned Additional Public Prosecutor appearing for the petitioner- State submits that the Ld. ASJ erred while not, appreciating the fact that the complainant was forced to bring more dowry and when she refused, she was humiliated and subjected to cruelty. 
He submits that based upon the allegation in the complaint, the learned Judge is bound to frame the charge under Section 313 IPC and if any clinching evidence is with the respondent / accused, he may take the benefit of the same during the trial. 
It is not disputed by the petitioner that initially FIR No. 106/2013 was registered under Section 498A / 406 / 34 , IPC 02.07.2013 on the complaint of CRL.REV.P. 731/2017  of 6 the complainant whereby, she has alleged that once her marriage was fixed with accused in December, 2010, different demands were made by his family members qua venue of functions associated with marriage. Further, though her father spent about 2 crores on her marriage, but parents of accused were not happy. Further, after marriage, she stayed with accused and his family at Delhi for about one month and after that she went to her husband to U.K. The respondent had demanded ₹ 50,000/- in U.K. from her and when she refused, she was beaten by him. Meanwhile, her father-in-law also came to U.K. and they also quarrelled with her and beaten her. Then she came to India in February, 2011 to attend her brother&#39;s marriage and went back to U.K. Thereafter, she became pregnant, but she was not well and doctors in U.K. advised her to go back to India because accused-respondent wanted her abortion done in U.K. In the month of June, 2011, she returned to her parents at Delhi. Her father suffered minor heart attack when she informed them about different incidents of cruelty. Moreover, her condition deteriorated so much that her mis-carriage happened. Further, efforts were made to settle the disputes, but to no avail and she was not permitted to stay with accused-respondent in U.K. However, she went to U.K. for her studies and resided separately but she did not report the said incidents of quarrels CRL.REV.P. 731/2017  of 6 and beating at U.K. as it could hamper her studies. 
During investigation, supplementary statement of complainant was recorded whereby she disclosed that immediately after her marriage, accused-respondent and his parents kept her jewellery with them at Delhi house on the pretext of keeping it in safe custody, but it was not returned despite repeated requests. Further, she added that accused-respondent too came to India to attend the marriage of her brother and he returned to U.K. on 22.02.2011. She returned to U.K. after two months on 22.04.2011 and thereafter, she stayed with her guardian because of her coming examination. When she informed her husband about her pregnancy on 20.05.2011, he took her to his place from her guardian&#39;s place, but since then he started pressurizing her for abortion and one day, after getting annoyed on the issue of abortion, he gave a fist blow on her abdomen and since then she started having pain in her abdomen. Subsequently, offence under Section 313 IPC was added in the case by the police. 
The medical reports of U.K. qua pregnancy of complainant have been attached along with charge sheet. Though, the learned counsel for the respondent has questioned the admissibility of these medical reports, however, genuineness of these reports was confirmed by the concerned I.O., CRL.REV.P. 731/2017  of 6 through e-mail and trial court was of the view that these could be looked into at this stage of charge and the question of admissibility can be decided during trial, if required. As per the allegation, the respondent landed a fist blow on her abdomen few days after 20.05.2011 when she disclosed about her pregnancy and thereafter, she had to go to London hospital on 07.06.2014 on account of bleeding. 
The learned trial Court perused the clinical notes of U.K. hospital which established that the complainant had disclosed to doctor that there have been arguments between her and her husband recently and they used to hit each other while fighting and screaming but at the same time she denied any specific episode of injury/trauma. Accordingly, the trial Court opined that complainant had not alleged at that time that accused had hit her on her abdomen. There seems to be no reason as to why the complainant would hide such an important information, especially after knowing that because of the said act, the bleeding started during early stage of pregnancy, as alleged by her. 
It is not the case of the complainant that she had not disclosed anything to the doctor about their matrimonial dispute. When complainant had frankly told the doctor that there had been arguments, fighting and even CRL.REV.P. 731/2017  of 6 hitting between them, her omission about disclosing the specific incident of punching her abdomen only indicate that there had been no such incident. 
In view of the above, the learned trial Court recorded that when complainant has herself admitted that they used to hit each other, without alleging hitting at abdomen, no inference can be drawn that accused had hit complainant with the intention to cause injury resulting into mis-carriage. Moreover, complainant while indulging in fighting and hitting with her husband knowing well that she was pregnant. In that condition, even an accidental injury can be fatal for fetus. 
In view of the facts recorded above, this Court is of the view that there is no illegality and perversity in the order of the learned ASJ by not framing charge under Section 313 IPC against the respondent. However, this Court hereby makes it clear that if during trial, clinching evidence comes before the trial Court, the Court may take action at that stage as per the law. 
In view of the above, the present revision petition is dismissed not only on merit but also on the ground of delay and latches. Pending application also stands disposed of.Chattrapal Singh Lodha &amp; Ors. vs State Of Nct on 8 August, 2019

Status report is filed. Same is taken on record. 
Petitioners impugn order on charge dated 10.08.2017, whereby, charges have been framed against the petitioners under Section 13(1)(d) and 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 read with Section 120B Indian Penal Code. 
The only challenge raised by learned counsel for the petitioners is that petitioners are liable to be discharged as the audio-video CDs CRL.REV.P.732/2017  of 9 relied upon by the prosecution, being copies of the electronic evidence, were not admissible in evidence without a certificate under Section 65B of the Evidence Act and thus the Trial Court erred in relying upon them even for the purposes of framing of charges. Reliance is placed on the judgment of the Supreme Court in Anwar P.V. vs. P.K. Bashir &amp; Ors .: (2014) 10 SCC 473. 
Learned Additional Public Prosecutor for the State submits that the requirement of a certificate under Section 65B would arise only if secondary evidence is sought to be produced and further that it is only at the stage of trial that the court is called upon to consider as to whether the requirements of Section 65B of the Evidence Act, if applicable, are satisfied or not. 
Learned APP for the State submits that where original device and the original media, on which the recordings have been made, is tendered in evidence, there is no requirement of furnishing a certificate under Section 65B of the Evidence Act. 
He further under instructions from the Investigating Officer submits that the original devices and original media on which the recording was made have been produced by the prosecution and in case secondary evidence of electronic record is produced, appropriate certificate would be produced at the relevant stage. 
The Supreme Court of India in Anwar P.V. vs. P.K. Bashir &amp; Ors (supra) has held as under:- CRL.REV.P.732/2017  of 9 
Any documentary evidence by way of an electronic record under the Evidence Act , in view of Sections 59 and 65-A , can be proved only in accordance with the procedure prescribed under Section 65-B . Section 65-B deals with the admissibility of the electronic record. The purpose of these provisions is to sanctify secondary evidence in electronic form, generated by a computer. It may be noted that the section starts with a non obstante clause. Thus, notwithstanding anything contained in the Evidence Act , any information contained in an electronic record which is printed on a paper, stored, recorded or copied in optical or magnetic media produced by a computer shall be deemed to be a document only if the conditions mentioned under sub-section (2) are satisfied, without further proof or production of the original. The very admissibility of such a document i.e. electronic record which is called as computer output, depends on the satisfaction of the four conditions under Section 65- B(2). Following are the specified conditions under Section 65-B(2) of the Evidence Act: (i) The electronic record containing the information should have been produced by the computer during the period over which the same was regularly used to store or process information for the purpose of any activity regularly carried on over that period by the person having lawful control over the use of that computer; (ii) The information of the kind contained in electronic record or of the kind from which the information is derived was regularly fed into the computer in the ordinary course of the said activity; CRL.REV.P.732/2017  of 9 (iii) During the material part of the said period, the computer was operating properly and that even if it was not operating properly for some time, the break or breaks had not affected either the record or the accuracy of its contents; and (iv) The information contained in the record should be a reproduction or derivation from the information fed into the computer in the ordinary course of the said activity. ***** ***** ***** 
It is further clarified that the person need only to state in the certificate that the same is to the best of his knowledge and belief. Most importantly, such a certificate must accompany the electronic record like computer printout, compact disc (CD), video compact disc (VCD), pen drive, etc., pertaining to which a statement is sought to be given in evidence, when the same is produced in evidence. All these safeguards are taken to ensure the source and authenticity, which are the two hallmarks pertaining to electronic record sought to be used as evidence. Electronic records being more susceptible to tampering, alteration, transposition, excision, etc. without such safeguards, the whole trial based on proof of electronic records can lead to travesty of justice. 
Only if the electronic record is duly produced in terms of Section 65-B of the Evidence Act, would the question arise as to the genuineness thereof and in that situation, resort can be made to Section 45-A --opinion of Examiner of Electronic Evidence. CRL.REV.P.732/2017  of 9 ***** ***** ***** 
The evidence relating to electronic record, as noted hereinbefore, being a special provision, the general law on secondary evidence under Section 63 read with Section 65 of the Evidence Act shall yield to the same. Generalia specialibus non derogant, special law will always prevail over the general law. It appears, the court omitted to take note of Sections 59 and 65-A dealing with the admissibility of electronic record. Sections 63 and 65 have no application in the case of secondary evidence by way of electronic record; the same is wholly governed by Sections 65-A and 65-B . To that extent, the statement of law on admissibility of secondary evidence pertaining to electronic record, as stated by this Court in Navjot Sandhu case [ State (NCT of Delhi) v. Navjot Sandhu , (2005) 11 SCC 600 : 2005 SCC (Cri) 1715] , does not lay down the correct legal position. It requires to be overruled and we do so. An electronic record by way of secondary evidence shall not be admitted in evidence unless the requirements under Section 65-B are satisfied. Thus, in the case of CD, VCD, chip, etc., the same shall be accompanied by the certificate in terms of Section 65-B obtained at the time of taking the document, without which, the secondary evidence pertaining to that electronic record, is inadmissible. (underlining supplied) 
The Supreme Court in Anwar P.V. (supra) held that any documentary evidence by way of an electronic record under the Evidence Act , in view of Sections 59 and 65-A , can be proved only in CRL.REV.P.732/2017  of 9 accordance with the procedure prescribed under Section 65-B . The purpose of this provision is to sanctify secondary evidence in electronic form, generated by a computer. Such a certificate must accompany the electronic record like computer printout, compact disc (CD), video compact disc (VCD), pen drive, etc., pertaining to which a statement is sought to be given in evidence, when the same is produced in evidence. Further that electronic record by way of secondary evidence shall not be admitted in evidence unless the requirements under Section 65-B are satisfied. In the case of CD, VCD, chip, etc., the same shall be accompanied by the certificate in terms of Section 65-B obtained at the time of taking the document, without which, the secondary evidence pertaining to that electronic record, is inadmissible. 
Requirement of a certificate under section 65B of the Evidence Act arises only if secondary evidence is sought to be produced in place of original evidence. In case the original device and the original media on which the recording is made is produced, there is no requirement of a certificate under Section 65B of the Evidence Act. It is only where the secondary evidence is sought to be tendered in evidence that a certificate under Section 65B of the Evidence Act is required. 
The Supreme Court of India in Vikram Singh v. State of Punjab, (2017) 8 SCC 518 referring to Anvar P.V. versus P.K. Basheer (supra) held that if an electronic record is used as primary evidence the same CRL.REV.P.732/2017  of 9 is admissible in evidence, without compliance with the conditions in Section 65-B. 
The Supreme Court of India in State By Karnataka Lokayukta Police Station, Bengaluru Versus M.R. Hiremath Criminal Appeal No. 819 of 2019 decided on May 1, 2019: 2019 SCC OnLine SC 734 held that Section 65B(4) is attracted in any proceedings &#34;where it is desired to give a statement in evidence by virtue of this section&#34;. Emphasising this facet of sub-section (4) the decision in Anvar holds that the requirement of producing a certificate arises when the electronic record is sought to be used as evidence. 
The Supreme Court in State by Karnataka Lokayukta Police Station, Bengaluru Versus M.R. Hiremath Criminal (supra) applied the principle laid down in the earlier decision in Union of India v. CDR Ravindra V Desai 2018 (16) SCC 273 wherein the Supreme Court had emphasised that non-production of a certificate under Section 65B on an earlier occasion is a curable defect. Reliance was also placed on the judgment of the Supreme Court in Sonu alias Amar v. State of Haryana 2017 (8) SCC 570, wherein it was held that the crucial test was whether the defect could have been cured at the stage of marking the document. Applying the said test it held that if an objection was taken to the CDRs being marked without a certificate, the Court could have given the prosecution an opportunity to rectify the deficiency. CRL.REV.P.732/2017  of 9 
Having regard to the said principle of law, the Supreme Court in State by Karnataka Lokayukta Police Station, Bengaluru Versus M.R. Hiremath Criminal (supra) held that the High Court erred in coming to the conclusion that the failure to produce a certificate under Section 65B(4) of the Evidence Act at the stage when the charge-sheet was filed was fatal to the prosecution. The need for production of such a certificate would arise when the electronic record is sought to be produced in evidence at the trial. It is at that stage that the necessity of the production of the certificate would arise. 
The sole contention of Learned Counsel for the petitioner is that since the electronic record produced along with the charge sheet was not accompanied with a certificate under Section 65B of the Evidence Act, same could not have been considered for the purposes of framing of charges. 
Clearly, in view of the legal position as noticed hereinabove, such an argument is not tenable in law. 
Further, in the present case the contention of learned APP for the State is that the original device and media have been produced before the court and in case any secondary evidence of the electronic record is sought to be tendered in evidence, an appropriate certificate under Section 65B of the Evidence Act shall be produced. 
The prosecution has not merely relied on secondary evidence CRL.REV.P.732/2017  of 9 but is seeking to produce primary evidence i.e. the original device and the media on which the CCTV footage was originally recorded. When the original device and media are produced, as noticed above, there is no requirement of a certificate under Section 65B of the Evidence Act. 
In view of the above, I find no merit in the petition. Petition is, accordingly, dismissed. 
It is, however, clarified that this court has neither considered nor opined upon the admissibility or otherwise of the electronic evidence. It would be open to the Trial Court to examine the evidence and to ascertain as to whether the original is being produced or not. If secondary evidence of electronic record is produced, to ascertain as to whether a certificate, as required under Section 65B of the Evidence Act has been filed or not. 
Order Dasti under signatures of the Court Master. AUGUST 08, 2019 SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J st CRL.REV.P.732/2017  of 9 Ajay Marwah vs State &amp; Anr on 13 September, 2019

Vide the present petition, the petitioner/ accused prays for setting aside the impugned judgment and order dated 04.09.2019 passed by the learned ASJ (North-West), Rohini Courts, Delhi, in C.A. No. 56/19, titled as &#39;Ajay Marwah Versus B.D. Jain Trading Company&#39; and further prays for setting aside the judgment dated 28.02.2019 and order on sentence dated 06.03.2019 passed in Complaint Case No. 15367/2016 titled as &#39;M/S B.D. Jain Trading Company Versus Ajay Marwah&#39; by the learned Metropolitan Magistrate, Rohini Courts, Delhi. CRL.REV.P. 964/2019  of 7 
The present petition is filed on the ground that the trial Court and the Appellate Court failed to take into consideration the fact that the petitioner herein was summoned on the basis of affidavit dated 07.09.2013 (Ex.CW1/1) filed by the respondent No. 2. As per the affidavit, there is no ingredient / substance / material by which prima facie makes out a case under Section 138 of Negotiable Instruments Act. Not only this, not even a single document which claimed to have been exhibited during trial is signed by any Judge. Moreover, in the affidavit, which is the basis of summoning, the petitioner as an accused under Section 138 of Negotiable Instruments Act, it is nowhere mentioned that whether any legally recoverable debt towards the petitioner or any demand was ever made or the cheque in question was ever handed over to respondent No. 2. Thus, both the Courts have failed to take into consideration the fact that the respondent No. 2 neither filed a detailed affidavit, which makes out a prima facie case under Section 138 of Negotiable Instruments Act for summoning the petitioner as an accused, nor has he examined himself as complainant. 
Ld. counsel further submitted that the respondent No. 2 was not examined as witness and has not even exhibited the complaint. Thus, while concluding the arguments, learned counsel for petitioner submits that since CRL.REV.P. 964/2019  of 7 there is no recoverable debt against the petitioner, even summoning order was perverse and both the Courts below have failed to consider the said fact, accordingly, the petition is deserves to be allowed. 
The case of the respondent No. 2/ complainant made in the complaint is that respondent No. 2 is a proprietary company, engaged in business of cloth and readymade garments and Shri Satish Chand Jain is its sole proprietor. The petitioner/ accused purchased 2000 meters of cloth for a sum of ₹2,40, 000/- vide bill no. 1185 dated 05.03.2013 and 2091 meters of cloth for a sum of ₹2,61,375/- vide bill no.1190 dated 12.03.2013 and in consideration of supply of clothes, the petitioner issued a cheque bearing no.356166 dated 28.06.2013 for a sum of ₹5,00,000/- (Rupee Five Lacs only) drawn on HDFC Bank, Punjabi Bagh, New Delhi to the respondent No. 2/ complainant in discharge of its liability. The balance amount of ₹1375/- was treated as a discount. The said cheque was dishonoured with remarks &#39;funds insufficient&#39; vide cheque Return Memo dated 01.07.2013. Thereafter, the respondent No. 2/ complainant issued a legal notice dated 
07.2013 to the petitioner through his counsel. Despite service of the legal notice, the petitioner neither gave reply nor paid the cheque amount within the stipulated period. Thereafter, the complainant presented the complaint CRL.REV.P. 964/2019  of 7 before the trial Court and the petitioner was tried and convicted by the trial court, which has been upheld by the learned appellate court vide order dated 04.07.2019. 
I note, Learned trial Court in Para 3 of the impugned order has recorded that &#34;in his pre-summoning evidence, complainant examined himself on affidavit Ex. CW-1/1. He reiterated the contents of complaint and placed on record, copy of bill dated 05.03.2013 as Ex.CW-1/A(0SR), copy of bill dated 12.03,2013 as Ex. CW-1/B(OSR), cheque bearing no. 356166 dated 28.04.2013 for a sum of Rs,5,00,000/- drawn on HDFC Bank, Punjabi Bagh, New Delhi- 110026 as Ex.CWl/C, cheque returning memo dated 01.07.2013 as Ex. CW-l/D, legal notice dated 26.07,2013 as Ex. CW-l/E, postal receipt as Ex. CW-l/F and tracking report as Ex. CW-l/G.&#34; 
It is pertinent to mention here that the petitioner took the defence before both the Courts below that he had business transaction with the complainant 6-7 years ago but he had not issued the cheque in question in favour of the complainant. He alleged that 2-3 years back, he had misplaced his few cheques including the cheques in question and consequently, he had lodged a police complaint in this regard. However, he has admitted his signatures on the cheque in question but denied having filled the contents CRL.REV.P. 964/2019  of 7 therein. He also denied receiving any legal notice. 
The petitioner was examined on 12.02.2018 under Section 281 Cr.P.C. read with Section 313 Cr.P.C. in which all the incriminating evidence were put to him, to which, he took the same defence as was taken by him at the time of framing of notice under Section 251 Cr.P.C. He stated that that he had never purchased any cloth from the complainant and bills Ex. CW-l/A &amp; Ex.CW-l/B are false documents. He preferred to lead defence evidence but he did not examine any witness to this effect. 
Be that as it may, the petitioner has admitted the business transaction with the respondent No. 2 but he also alleged that he had not issued the cheques in question in favour of the respondent No. 2/ complainant. 
He further stated that certain cheques, including the cheque in question, were misplaced by him and he had lodged police complaint in Police Station - Mukherjee Nagar. 
However, no cogent evidence has been led by the petitioner in support of the said claim. The reason for dishonour of cheque is insufficiency of funds. No explanation was given by the petitioner as to why he did give &#39;stop payment instructions&#39; regarding the cheques in question, if, cheques were misplaced. Further, the petitioner did not step into the witness box to CRL.REV.P. 964/2019  of 7 stand by his defence. The defence taken by the petitioner at the time of framing of notice and while recording the statement of petitioner under Section 281 Cr.P.C. read with Section 313 Cr.P.C. cannot be considered as evidence. 
In case of V.S. Yadav vs. Reena , 172 (2010) DLT 561 and Bansal Plywood vs. State (NCT of Delhi) and Anr. (Criminal Appeal No . 17 of 2017 decided on 04.09.2017), it is held that &#34;the defence taken by the respondent No. 3 at the time of framing of notice under Section 251 Cr.P.C. or the defence taken by her in her application under Section 145 (2) NI Act or her explanation under Section 313 Cr.P.C. read with Section 281 Cr.P.C. of the Code recorded on 04.02.2015 is not &#39;evidence&#39; within the meaning of Section 3 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. When a person appears in the Court as a witness, he is required to state facts on oath under Section 4 of the Oaths Act, 1969 and his examination in chief is tested on touchstone on cross-examination by other party. This is actually the evidence. Therefore, the plea taken in application under Section 145(2) NI Act or defence taken at the time of framing of notice under Section 251 of the Code or the explanation under Section 313 read with Section 281 of the Code by any stretch and imagination cannot be treated as &#39;evidence&#39;.&#34; CRL.REV.P. 964/2019  of 7 
In view of the above facts and settled legal position, I find no merit in the present petition. 
The same is accordingly dismissed with no orders as to costs. Pending applications also stand disposed of.Anuj Singh vs State on 22 February, 2019

Petitioner seeks regular bail in FIR No. 61/2018 under Sections 379 / 392 / 397 / 411 / 506 / 120-B of the IPC, Police Station Jama Masjid. 
The subject FIR has been registered on the complaint of an employee of Sanjay Sales Agency. 
As per the complainant, he was instructed by the owner to transport goods and money in a van from their shop at Fateh Puri, Delhi to the factory at Patparganj, Delhi. It is alleged that the complainant had put four boxes in the back of the van containing BAIL APPLN. 354/2019  of 4 goods and Rs. 15 lakhs in cash. As per the complainant after putting the goods in the back of the van he bolted the lock with a nail and sat in the front seat of the van with driver. En-route to the factory, it is alleged that their vehicle hit another vehicle bearing No. DL1LCR4612. It is alleged that three boys were travelling in the said van and they started fighting with the driver of the complainant. After the fight was over, they left the spot. Subsequently, someone pointed out that back door of the van was open. When they checked, it transpired that goods and cash were missing from the van. 
Chargesheet has been filed. As per the prosecution, the case of the prosecution is that Investigating Officer checked the CCTV footage of the locality and found some boys doing recce of the area. Based on the same, they were apprehended. The petitioner is one of them who were apprehended. It is further alleged that cash of Rs. 1,12,000/- has been recovered from the residence of the petitioner. 
Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner has been falsely implicated. He submits that the entire story as mentioned in the FIR has changed in the subsequent statement given to the police. The entire narration of incident has changed and in the supplementary statement it is alleged that there was no theft but there was robbery of Rs. 40 lakhs that also at gunpoint. 
Substantive charge against the petitioner has only been framed under Section 411 IPC and other charge read with 120 B IPC has been BAIL APPLN. 354/2019  of 4 framed. 
Learned counsel submits that no gun has been recovered but a toy gun is alleged to have been recovered. It is submitted that the complainant has stated that in the heat of the moment he mistakenly stated that cash of 15 lakhs was stolen and omitted to mention that he was robbed of Rs. 40 lakhs at gunpoint. Further learned counsel submits that number of the vehicle which was allegedly used in the offence has changed from DL1LCR4612 in the FIR to DL1LCR4212 in the chargesheet. 
Learned counsel for the petitioner further submits that there is no material to connect the petitioner with the subject offence and the prosecution has not been able to establish as to how from CCTV footage the Investigating officer could zero down to the petitioner as the one who was doing recce of the area. 
Further it is contended that the alleged recovery of cash from the petitioner is of no consequence, in as much as, neither the number of notes were noted nor there was any marked currency and as such the amount recovered from the petitioner cannot be connected to the subject offence. 
Status report has been filed and the same is taken on record. The petitioner has been in custody since 29.06.2018. Investigation is complete and chargesheet has already been filed. BAIL APPLN. 354/2019  of 4 
Without commenting on the merits of the case and keeping in view the totality of the facts and circumstances of the case and the fact that the petitioner has been in custody for over seven months, I am of the view that petitioner has made out a case for grant of regular bail. 
Accordingly, on petitioner furnishing a bail bond in the sum of Rs. 25,000/- with one surety of the like amount to the satisfaction of the Trial Court, petitioner shall be released on bail, if not required in any other case. Petitioner shall not do anything which may prejudice either the trial or the prosecution witnesses. 
Petition is allowed in the above terms. 
Order Dasti under signatures of the Court Master. SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J FEBRUARY 22, 2019 mk BAIL APPLN. 354/2019  of 4 Vikas Bhutani vs State &amp; Anr. on 17 May, 2019

05.2019 SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J. (ORAL) 
Petitioner impugns order dated 29.05.2017 whereby interim maintenance has been assessed by the Trial Court. On an application filed the respondent under Section 12 of The Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act , 2005, an amount of Rs.40,000/- has been fixed as interim maintenance. 
Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the Trial Court has erred in not appreciating that the respondent had already filed an CRL.REV.P. 579-2017  of 5 application under Section 125 Cr.P.C and interim maintenance of Rs.15,000/- was assessed in the said application and petitioner had continued to pay the said amount of Rs.15,000/- per month. 
It is informed that the said application under Section 125 Cr.P.C has since been withdrawn. 
Learned counsel submits that the Trial Court further erred in relating back the maintenance to the date of the application and not restricting it to the date of order as respondent is already receiving maintenance of Rs.15,000/- under orders passed in an application under Section 125 Cr.P.C. The quantum assessed by the trial court has not been assailed on merits. 
The only contention of learned counsel for the petitioner is that since the respondent was already receiving a sum of Rs.15,000/-, the order should not have related back to the date of the application but should have been from the date of the order. 
Learned counsel for the respondent submits that even the amount of Rs. 15,000/- has not been fully paid. 
I am unable to accept the contention of the learned counsel for the petitioner. 
I am unable to accept the contention of the learned counsel for the petitioner. One has to look at the nature of the maintenance awarded. CRL.REV.P. 579-2017  of 5 
The object of grant of maintenance is to afford a subsistence allowance to the wife, who is not able to maintain herself, then the award normally should be from the date of the application. For the court to award maintenance from the date of the order there have to be compelling circumstances for the court to take such a view. Maintenance awarded to a wife is not a bounty. It is awarded to her so that she can survive. The fact that time is spent between the date of the application and a final adjudication and an award in favour of the wife, does not mean that she had enough funds to maintain herself. When the trial court comes to conclusion after trial that the wife is entitled to an amount of maintenance the assessment in fact relates back to the date of the application. When the assessment relates back to the date of the application then there have to be compelling circumstances for the trial court to restrict the award of maintenance to a period post the date of the order. 
This court in Rekha Sabharwal &amp; Anr. Vs Jitender Sabharwal 2018 SCC OnLine Del 12448; Crl.M.C.3647 of 2014 has been held that the maintenance is to relate back to the date of the application and not from the date of the order. 
A coordinate bench of this court in Bimla Devi Vs Shamsher Singh (2015) 224 DLT (CN8) 8 held that &#34;Maintenance is a right which accrues to a wife against her husband since the inception of her getting married with him. A moral and legal obligation and duty is cast upon the husband to maintain his wife. The necessary corollary is CRL.REV.P. 579-2017  of 5 that from the time the wife starts residing separately from her husband, she can claim maintenance from him&#34;. 
The Supreme Court of India in Shail Kumari Devi v. Krishan Bhagwan Pathak (2008) 9 SCC 632 held that &#34;the High Court was not right in holding that as a normal rule, the Magistrate should grant maintenance only from the date of the order and not from the date of the application for maintenance. And if he intends to pass such an order, he is required to record reasons in support of such order. 
Further, in Jaiminiben Hirenbhai Vyas&amp; Anr vs Hirenbhai Ramesh Chandra Vyas &amp;Anr . (2015) 2 SCC 385 the Supreme Court held that &#34; Section 125 of the Cr.P.C., therefore, impliedly requires the Court to consider making the order for maintenance effective from either of the two dates, having regard to the relevant facts. For good reason, evident from its order, the Court may choose either date. It is neither appropriate nor desirable that a Court simply states that maintenance should be paid from either the date of the order or the date of the application in matters of maintenance. Thus, as per Section 354 (6) of the Cr.P.C ., the Court should record reasons in support of the order passed by it, in both eventualities. The purpose of the provision is to prevent vagrancy and destitution in society and the Court must apply its mind to the options having regard to the facts of the particular case&#34;. 
Clearly, the maintenance is to be from the date of the CRL.REV.P. 579-2017  of 5 application. Further, as noticed above there is no challenge to the quantum of maintenance assessed by the trial court. 
Accordingly, petitioner shall pay maintenance at the rate of Rs. 40,000/- per month from the date of filing of the application i.e. March, 2014. Petitioner would be entitled to an adjustment of the amount that petitioner has already paid in terms of the order passed in the application under Section 125 Cr.P.C. and the interim orders passed by this court. 
In view of the above, I find no merit in the petition. The petition is accordingly dismissed. Interim order dated 08.08.2017 is vacated. 
After the petition was dismissed, learned counsel for the petitioner prayed for some time to take instructions - as to in how much time petitioner would be in a position to clear the arrears. 
At request, list for directions on 24.05.2019. SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J MAY 17, 2019 rk CRL.REV.P. 579-2017  of 5 Mr. Jarar Ahmad Khan vs State on 22 November, 2019

Allowed, subject to all just exceptions. 
This application is, accordingly, disposed of. BAIL APPLN. 2903/2019 
The present application is filed under Section 438 Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 ( Cr.P.C .) for grant of anticipatory bail. 
The admitted facts of the present case are that in the aforesaid FIR, the charge-sheet was filed without arresting the petitioner. The summons BAIL APPLN. 2903/2019  of 5 were served one day prior to the date of hearing which was fixed as 
10.2019 and on the said date, application for exemption was filed which was opposed and declined by the learned Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (&#39;ACMM&#39;) and NBW was issued against the petitioner. Since in the FIR Section 376 IPC was added, the petitioner had moved an application for anticipatory bail which was kept pending for hearing on 01.11.2019. On the said date, the petitioner moved an application for staying the NBWs issued against the petitioner till the disposal of the anticipatory bail, however, same was dismissed on 01.11.2019 and the application for anticipatory bail was also declined by the court of learned Additional Sessions Judge, Tis Hazari Courts, Delhi. 
Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner submits that on the same day i.e. 01.11.2019 finding absence of the petitioner, the learned Trial Court did not further issue NBWs against the petitioner because the case file was with the Sessions Court and the next date of hearing was fixed for 14.11.2019. On the said date, finding absence of the petitioner, the learned Trial Court had issued NBWs against the petitioner. 
Thereafter, the petitioner preferred to file the anticipatory bail before this Court which was listed for 15.11.2019, however, the same was BAIL APPLN. 2903/2019  of 5 withdrawn with liberty to file afresh. 
Learned counsel further submits that the petitioner had apprehension of his arrest in consequences of the NBWs issued against him as the petitioner wanted to appear before the Trial Court bonafidely to prove his defence that the allegation and the story in the FIR is totally false, fabricated, frivolous, concocted and with a view to extort money from the petitioner to settle the matter with the petitioner of the previous FIR bearing no. 456/2018 lodged against the minor son of petitioner. 
He further submits that originally, the abovementioned FIR was registered on the false and frivolous allegations of the complainant, wherein she has alleged that she had previously lodged FIR No. 0456/18 under Sections 376 / 506 IPC and Section 6 of POCSO Act, registered against one Faizan Ahmed (who is minor son of the present petitioner). It is alleged by the complainant in present case/FIR that on 18.02.2019 at 7.00 PM, the petitioner along with his nephew Maqsood Ahmad, on seeing the complainant, started raising vulgar and obscene instigations towards her. Whenever she comes out of the house, he always follow her and shows his private parts and also says to the complainant to give statement in his favour in the court, otherwise the complainant would be killed and the case will be BAIL APPLN. 2903/2019  of 5 closed of its own. 
It is further alleged by the complainant that on 17.02.2019, in the morning at about 7.15 AM, when she was going downstairs, the petitioner covered/closed her face and touched her private parts of body with oblique intentions and stated, she should accompany him for having physical relations with him. 
Learned counsel for petitioner submits that with these allegations, the complainant got her complaint lodged with the police, apprehending acid attack on her at any point of time and as such, she made complaint against the petitioner and Maqsood Ahmad. 
Learned prosecutor appeared on behalf of the State alongwith Mr. Muntazir Mehendi, learned counsel for the complainant admitted that the charge sheet was filed without arrest of the petitioner. Thereafter, he appeared in Court. However, the date on which he did not appear, NBWs issued against him. He filed an application for recalling of NBWs, which had also been dismissed. However, instead of challenging the dismissal order, the petitioner has filed application under Section 482 Cr.P.C. seeking anticipatory bail. 
As submitted by the learned counsel for petitioner that after issuing BAIL APPLN. 2903/2019  of 5 NBWs, he had apprehension that the Court may take him into custody, he moved an application for recalling of the NBWs, however, the same had been rejected. The charge sheet was filed without arrest of the petitioner and on one date, when he could not appear for which he moved an application for exemption, but the application was rejected and NBWs issued. 
In view of the above facts and circumstances, I am of the view that justice would be met if order of NBWs is set aside. Accordingly, I hereby set aside the impugned order and direct the learned Trial Court to admit the petitioner on bail on furnishing personal bond in the sum of ₹25,000/- with one surety of the like amount to its satisfaction. 
The petition is accordingly allowed and disposed of.Jagdish Kapila vs Raj Kumar &amp; Anr. on 21 May, 2019

Petitioner impugns charge framed against the petitioner on 
12.2013 whereby petitioner has been charged of an offence under Section 447 IPC. 
Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the Trial Court has erred in framing a charge and not appreciating that petitioner was the allottee and in possession of the subject shop and there is no document or material to show that respondent/complainant was ever in possession of the shop. CRL.REV.P 536/2015  of 5 
Learned counsel further submits that the continuance of proceedings would be a harassment of the petitioner who is admittedly the recorded lessee of the petitioner from NDMC and on a mere bald statement, the FIR has been registered. He further submits that petitioner had filed a suit for permanent injunction seeking a restraint on the complainant from interfering in the peaceful possession of the petitioner and from dispossessing him from the property and said suit has been decreed by judgment dated 05.05.2015. 
Learned counsel for the respondent/complainant submits that respondent had paid a sum of Rs.50,000/- for taking the shop on rent and possession of the same was delivered to the respondent by the petitioner on 18.01.2011 and complainant was in the process of renovating the same when petitioner trespassed into the shop on 
02.2011. 
The shop in issue is in Palika Bhawan, R.K.Puram, New Delhi which is a NDMC market. Petitioner is admittedly the allottee of the said shop from NDMC. Respondent had filed a complaint under Section 200 contending that petitioner had agreed to rent out the shop to the respondent and had demanded a sum of Rs.50,000/- to be paid in advance. It is alleged that Rs.50,000/- was paid as advance and keys were delivered on 18.01.2011. It is alleged that petitioner had assured that he would give a receipt for the same and would also remove his articles from the said shop. CRL.REV.P 536/2015  of 5 
The complaint alleges that petitioner did not remove his articles lying in the shop with malafide intention and after lapse of around 20- 25 days, the complainant started woodwork in the shop. On 
02.2011, when the carpenter was on leave, the petitioner is alleged to have broken the locks and trespassed into the shop. 
It is conceded by the complainant that there is no document to evidence the fact that any amount was paid by the respondent to the petitioner or possession was handed over by the petitioner to the respondent by the said shop. 
Admittedly the petitioner is the allottee of the shop from NDMC. Even the complainant concedes that there is no documentary evidence to corroborate the fact that there was ever any discussion between the petitioner and the complainant with regard to renting of the shop or that money was paid in advance by the respondent to the petitioner. There is further no documentary evidence to corroborate that any tenancy was created in favour of the respondent or possession handed over. On the contrary the complaint itself alleges that there were certain articles of the petitioner lying in the shop i.e. one table and chair and one side rack, which it is alleged he agreed to remove within a day or so. 
The complaint is silent as to when the petitioner actually removed his articles and handed over the peaceful vacant possession of the shop to the respondent. The complaint rather shows that CRL.REV.P 536/2015  of 5 petitioner continued to retain possession of the said premises as his articles continued to remain there. Further record reveals that petitioner had made a complaint to the police on 26.02.2011 and then on 07.03.2011 that the complainant along with four other shop keepers was harassing him and was pressurizing him to part with the possession of his shop. 
The petitioner had also filed a civil suit for perpetual injunction arraigning the complainant and those four individuals as the ones who were pressurizing him and seeking an injunction restraining them from dispossessing the petitioner. The suit filed by the petitioner stands decreed on 05.05.2015, though ex parte. Despite the petitioner annexing a copy of the petition in these proceedings and the respondent being served, admittedly no challenge has been made by the respondent to the order dated 05.05.2015 which has become final. 
The admitted factual position that emerges is that petitioner is the allottee of the shop from NDMC and has a decree in his favour and against the complainant restraining him from forcibly dispossessing the petitioner from the said premises. Further it is an admitted position that there is no documentary evidence to show any discussion with regard to renting out of the shop by the petitioner, payment of money by the respondent, vacation of the shop and handing over of the vacant peaceful possession to the respondent. 
The alleged eye witnesses cited by the respondents were all CRL.REV.P 536/2015  of 5 made defendants in the civil suit filed by the petitioner and even they did not come forward to controvert the case of the petitioner and decree has been passed against them also. 
 Section 447 is punishment for Criminal Trespass which is defined under section 441 to be committed when a person enters into or upon property in the possession of another with intent to commit an offence or to intimidate, insult or annoy any person in possession of such property. The impugned order clearly is erroneous in as much as the Trial Court has framed the charge on the presumption that the complainant was in possession of the shop at that time. As there is no material to show that possession was parted with by the petitioner or handed over to the complainant, petitioner could not have been charged with the offence under section 447 IPC. 
In view of the above, I am of the view that charge framed against the petitioner on 13.12.2013 is not sustainable. In view of the above, petition is allowed. Impugned order dated 13.12.2013 framing charge against the petitioner under section 447 IPC is set aside. 
Petitioner is discharged. 
Order dasti under signatures of the Court Master. MAY 21, 2019 SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J rk CRL.REV.P 536/2015  of 5 The State ( Nct Of Delhi) vs Suresh Gautam &amp; Ors. on 15 May, 2019

State has filed the subject revision petition seeking quashing of order dated 04.01.2016 passed by the Court of Additional Sessions Judge rejecting the application filed by the State under Section 244 Cr.P.C. seeking remit of the matter to the Court of MM for recording pre charge evidence. 
A complaint was filed by the respondent No.3 alleging that respondent Nos.1 &amp; 2 had committed an offence under Section 307 / 323 / 324 / 452 / 506 / 120-B / 34 IPC. After recording of the pre summoning evidence, respondent Nos.1 &amp; 2 were directed to be CRL.REV.P.625/2016  of 5 summoned by order dated 12.08.2013. 
By order dated 12.11.2013 case was committed to the Court of Sessions. On 08.01.2014 charges was framed against respondent Nos.1 &amp; 2 under Section 454 / 34 IPC and Section 307 / 34 IPC. 
Subject application was filed by the prosecution contending that after the respondent Nos.1 &amp; 2 were summoned no pre charge evidence was recorded and as such it was prayed that the mater be remitted to the Court of the MM for recording pre charge evidence. Since the application was dismissed by the impugned order, State has preferred subject revision petition. 
 Section 244 Cr.P.C reads as under:- &#34;244. Evidence for prosecution. (1) When, in any warrant- case instituted otherwise than on a police report, the accused appears or is brought before a Magistrate, the Magistrate shall proceed to hear the prosecution and take all such evidence as may be produced in support of the prosecution. (2) The Magistrate may, on the application of the prosecution, issue a summons to any of its witnesses directing him to attend or to produce any document or other thing.&#34; 
Under Section 244 Cr.P.C., in any warrant case instituted other than on a police report, if the accused appears or is brought before the Magistrate, the Magistrate has to hear the prosecution and take such CRL.REV.P.625/2016  of 5 evidence as may be produced in support of the prosecution. If upon taking of evidence referred to in Section 244 Cr.P.C., the Magistrate considers that no case is made out against the accused, then under Section 245 Cr.P.C., the Magistrate is empowered to discharge the accused. If after taking such evidence into account the Magistrate is of the opinion that there is ground for presuming that the accused has committed an offence triable by him, which such Magistrate is competent to try and adequately punished by him, he is to proceed further to frame a charge. 
A coordinate Bench of this Court in Dhano vs. State , 2009 (1) JCC 145 has held that it is the Magistrate who has the power to record pre charge evidence after summoning the accused in a warrant triable case and also to permit cross examination of the witnesses to be committed on behalf of the accused. Dhano vs. State (Supra) was followed by another coordinate bench in Azad Singh Dagar vs The State &amp; ors , 2015 SCC online Del 10984. 
The Supreme Court in Sunil Mehta and Anr vs. State of Gujarat &amp; Anr , (2013) 9 SCC 209 has held that trial of an accused under Chapter XIX and evidence relevant to the same has no nexus proximate or otherwise with the evidence adduced at the initial stage (i.e. pre summoning stage). There is a qualitative difference between the approach that the Court adopts and the evidence adduced, at the stage of taking cognizance and summoning the accused and that recorded at the trial. CRL.REV.P.625/2016  of 5 
The Supreme Court held that there is nothing in the provisions 244, 245 or 246 or any other provision of the Code to suggest that the evidence which the Magistrate may have recorded at the stage of taking cognizance and issuing of process tantamount to evidence that can be used by the Magistrate for the purposes of framing of charges against the accused person under Section 246 thereof. 
Supreme Court has further held that the whole approach underlying recording of evidence under Section 244 after the accused has appeared is to ensure that not only does the accused have the opportunity to hear the evidence adduced against him but also to defend himself by cross examining the witnesses with a view to showing that the witness is either unreliable or a statement made by him does not have any evidentiary value. Further it is held that the right of cross examination granted to an accused under Section 244 to 246 even before framing of charge does not prejudice the complainant or result in any failure of justice; while denial of such right is bound to prejudice the accused in his defence and an opportunity to show that he should not be made to suffer the rigors of a trial. 
In the present case, by impugned order, the Sessions Court while rejecting the application filed by the State, has in fact noticed that no pre charge evidence has been recorded by the Metropolitan Magistrate before committing the case to sessions. The only reason given for dismissal of the application is that since charges have already been framed by the predecessor court, the successor Court CRL.REV.P.625/2016  of 5 would have no power to review the order. 
Clearly the reasoning given by the Sessions Court is not sustainable and the manner in which the charge has been framed by the MM prior to committal is contrary to the law laid down by the Court in Sunil Mehta (Supra). No pre-charge evidence has been recorded in this case and reliance has been placed solely on the pre- summoning evidence for the purposes of framing of charge. 
In view of the above, the impugned order dated 04.01.2016, order of committal dated 12.11.2013 and the order on charge and consequent charge framed on 08.01.2014 are clearly not sustainable and are accordingly set aside. 
The matter is remitted to the Court of MM and shall be commenced from the stage of recording of pre charge evidence. The matter shall be placed before the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Central District, Tis Hazari Courts on 28.05.2019 for assignment to the concerned Court of Metropolitan Magistrate. Parties shall appear before the Court of CMM on the said date. 
Petition is allowed in the above terms. 
Order dasti under signatures of the Court Master. MAY 15, 2019/ rk SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J CRL.REV.P.625/2016  of 5 Raj Kumar vs State &amp; Anr. on 20 February, 2019

Petitioner impugns order dated 17.07.2018 whereby charge has been framed against the petitioner for the offence under Sections u/s 395/452/323/342/149/120B IPC . CRL.REV.P.205/2019  of 5 
Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that he restricts the challenges to the framing of charge under Section 395 IPC and in so far as other sections are concerned he shall be facing trial. 
Subject FIR was registered on the complaint of the officiating principal of SRSD Senior Secondary School, Lajpat Nagar IV. As per the FIR when the complainant was in the school performing her duties, the petitioner along with one Mr.Devesh Nath who claimed to be Secretary of the of Pandit Shradharam trust committee, A-179, Dayanand Colony and 15-20 bouncers entered into the school from the backside and barged into the office of the principal and started assaulting the manager and abusing him and they threatened to also eliminate him. 
It is alleged that they assaulted him with kicks and blows and forced him to sign certain papers. It is thereafter alleged that they snatched the keys of the almirah from the complainant and threatened to cause physical harm to her. The almirah contained the cheque books of the accounts and records of the school. It is alleged that they misbehaved with the manager of the school and asked him to sign certain documents failing which they would shoot him. 
It is alleged that the petitioner claimed himself to be an advocate and advised the said bouncers to take the left hand thumb impression of the manager. Thereafter they took out a letter pad of the school on which resignation of the manager was typed and forcibly CRL.REV.P.205/2019  of 5 took his thumb impressions on the same. 
It is alleged that they forcibly pushed all the school staff out of the school and locked the premises. 
Learned APP submits that investigation has revealed that the accused thereafter removed some of the records of the school and subsequently amount was withdrawn from the bank account of the school using the cheque books which were lying in the almirah of the school. Learned APP further submits that petitioner has been identified by the complainant as the one who had also come to the school on the day of the incident and participated in the entire incident. 
Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that petitioner has bene falsely implicated. He submits that petitioner has been described as an advocate whereas he is not an advocate. It is further alleged that no offence under Section 395 IPC is made out. 
 Section 395 IPC is punishment for dacoity. Dacoity has been defined in Section 391 IPC as when five or more persons conjointly commit or attempt to commit a robbery. Robbery is defined in Section 390 IPC as theft if, in order to the committing of the theft, or in committing the theft, or in carrying away or attempting to carry away property obtained by theft, the offender, voluntarily causes or attempts to cause to any person death or hurt or wrongful restraint, or fear of CRL.REV.P.205/2019  of 5 instant death or of instant hurt. Theft in turn has been defined in Section 378 IPC as whoever, intending to take dishonestly any moveable property out of the possession of any person without that person&#39;s consent, moves that property in order to such taking, is said to commit theft. 
The allegations against the petitioner is that petitioner along with 15 to 20 bouncers had entered the school. Thereafter all of them threatened the manager and even threatened to kill him if he did not sign the documents they wanted him to sign. They are alleged to have forcibly taken his thumb impression on a resignation letter. The complainant has alleged that she was also threatened and forcibly keys of the almirah where the school records and cheque books were kept were taken from her possession. The cheque book which was alleged to have been kept in the almirah was used for withdrawing amount from the bank account of the school. They are also alleged to have extended threat to her of physical harm. 
Perusal of record shows that prima facie ingredients of Section 395 IPC are clearly made out. The allegations as well as the record of investigation raise grave suspicion against the petitioner of his involvement in the subject offence. In view thereof, there is no infirmity in the order of the Trial Court in framing a charge against the petitioner inter-alia under Section 395 IPC. 
Since petitioner has not impugned other charges, this Court is CRL.REV.P.205/2019  of 5 not commenting on the same. 
The petition is accordingly without any merit and is dismissed. 
It is also noticed that the petition has been filed with a delay of 120 days. The only ground mentioned seeking condonation of delay is that the Trial Court record included several documents which were in Hindi had to be translated and it took some time in translation. 
Perusal of the record shows that apart from the FIR there are no other documents that are in Hindi filed along with the petition. Translation of the FIR could not have taken 120 days. Sufficient cause has not been shown for condoning the delay. 
It is clarified that this Court has expressed only a prima facie view on the material against the petitioner and the observations contained herein shall have no bearing at the time of final adjudication of merits of the case. 
Order Dasti under signatures of Court Master. FEBRUARY 20, 2019 SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J rk CRL.REV.P.205/2019  of 5 Rajesh Pandey vs State ( Nct Of Delhi) on 22 February, 2019

Petitioner seeks regular bail in FIR No. 61/2018 under Sections 392 / 397 / 506 / 411 / 120-B / 34 of the IPC, Police Station Jama Masjid. 
The subject FIR has been registered on the complaint of an employee of Sanjay Sales Agency. 
As per the complainant, he was instructed by the owner to transport goods and money in a van from their shop at Fateh Puri, Delhi to the factory at Patparganj, Delhi. It is alleged that the complainant had put four boxes in the back of the van containing BAIL APPLN. 262/2019  of 4 goods and Rs. 15 lakhs in cash. As per the complainant after putting the goods in the back of the van he bolted the lock with a nail and sat in the front seat of the van with driver. En-route to the factory, it is alleged that their vehicle hit another vehicle bearing No. DL 1LCR 
It is alleged that three boys were travelling in the said van and they started fighting with the driver of the complainant. After the fight was over, they left the spot. Subsequently, someone pointed out that back door of the van was open. When they checked, it transpired that goods and cash were missing from the van. 
Chargesheet has been filed. As per the prosecution, the case of the prosecution is that Investigating Officer checked the CCTV footage of the locality and found some boys doing recce of the area. Based on the same, they were apprehended. The petitioner is one of them who were apprehended. It is further alleged that cash of Rs. 1,28,000/- has been recovered from the shop of the petitioner. 
Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner has been falsely implicated. He submits that the entire story as mentioned in the FIR has changed in the subsequent statement given to the police. The entire narration of incident has changed and in the supplementary statement it is alleged that there was no theft but there was robbery of Rs. 40 lakhs that also at gunpoint. 
Learned counsel submits that no gun has been recovered but a toy gun is alleged to have been recovered from the shop of the BAIL APPLN. 262/2019  of 4 petitioner. It is submitted that the complainant has stated that in the heat of the moment he mistakenly stated that cash of 15 lakhs was stolen and omitted to mention that he was robbed of Rs. 40 lakhs at gunpoint. Further learned counsel submits that number of the vehicle which was allegedly used in the offence has changed from DL1LCR4612 in the FIR to DL1LCR4212 in the chargesheet. 
Learned counsel for the petitioner further submits that there is no material to connect the petitioner with the subject offence and the prosecution has not been able to establish as to how from CCTV footage the Investigating officer could zero down to the petitioner as the one who was doing recce of the area. 
Further it is contended that the alleged recovery of cash from the petitioner is of no consequence, in as much as, neither the number of notes were noted nor there was any marked currency and as such the amount recovered from the petitioner cannot be connected to the subject offence. 
Status report has been filed and the same is taken on record. The petitioner has been in custody since 29.06.2018. Investigation is complete and chargesheet has already been filed. 
Without commenting on the merits of the case and keeping in view the totality of the facts and circumstances of the case and the fact that the petitioner has been in custody for over seven months, I am of BAIL APPLN. 262/2019  of 4 the view that petitioner has made out a case for grant of regular bail. 
Accordingly, on petitioner furnishing a bail bond in the sum of Rs. 25,000/- with one surety of the like amount to the satisfaction of the Trial Court, petitioner shall be released on bail, if not required in any other case. Petitioner shall not do anything which may prejudice either the trial or the prosecution witnesses. 
Petition is allowed in the above terms. 
Order Dasti under signatures of the Court Master. SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J FEBRUARY 22, 2019 mk BAIL APPLN. 262/2019  of 4 Mukesh Mann vs The State Govt. Of Nct Of Delhi on 8 August, 2019

Petitioner impugns order dated 23.09.2017 whereby charge has been framed against the petitioner under Section 138 of the Electricity Act, 2003. As per the complaint lodged by respondent No.2 theft of electricity was found in the premises of the petitioner whereby a wire was connected directly to the public pole outside the shop of the petitioner. 
Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that petitioner had rented out the shop to a tenant in the year 2002-2003 and on account of non- payment of rent the services to the tenant i.e. electricity supply were got disconnected and the tenant thereafter without the knowledge and consent of the petitioner allegedly connected a wire directly to the electricity pole CRL.REV.P 869/2017  of 4 outside the shop. 
Learned counsel further submits that proceedings were initiated by respondent No.2 against the said tenant wherein the tenant was convicted and he paid the civil liability amount. Subsequently, subject proceedings were initiated against the petitioner on the allegation that the wire was connected with his consent and knowledge. 
Learned counsel submits that petitioner did not give his consent for the same and there is no material to show that there was any knowledge of the petitioner of the direct theft of electricity. 
Parties were referred to mediation. Mediation Settlement dated 02.08.2019 has been executed. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that without prejudice to his rights and contentions, petitioner had agreed to pay the settlement amount of Rs.18,267/- to the respondent No.2. The settled amount has already been paid. 
Learned counsel appearing for respondent No.2 under instructions from Mr. Amit Singh, AGM (Legal) who is the authorised representative of respondent No.2 confirms the Settlement Agreement and submits that payment in terms thereof has been received. He further submits that he has no objection to the compounding of the subject offence and even discharge of the petitioner. 
Keeping in view the totality of facts and circumstances and also the fact that the parties have settled their disputes, I am of the view that this is a fit case for exercise of powers under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C for putting an end to the proceedings. Reference may be made to the judgment of the Supreme Court in State of Haryana &amp; others versus Bhajan Lal &amp; others, CRL.REV.P 869/2017  of 4 (1992) Supp (1) SCC 335. 
In view of the settlement between the parties and payment of the settlement amount, no fruitful purpose would be served in continuation of the proceedings. 
In view of the above, impugned order dated 23.09.2017 is set aside. Petitioner is discharged of the offence. 
Further, it is directed that the petitioner shall, as a way of further service to the community, plant 50 trees, within one month and for the same shall report to the Deputy Conservator of Forests (West), who shall assign him duty to plant 50 trees in Central Ridge Reserve Forest, Budha Jayanti Park, Vandemataram Marg, New Delhi. The plants/trees shall be of deciduous indigenous variety with a nursery age of three and a half years, and a height of at least six feet. Depending upon the soil type and topography, the DCF may consider the following types of trees for plantation:- (i) Gular (Cluster Fig) (ii) Kadamba (Burflower Tree) (iii) Pilkhan (White Fig) (iv) Jaamun (Black Plum) (v) Bargad (Banyan Tree) (vi) Mango (vii) Amaltas (Golden (viii) Mahua (Butter Tree) Shower) [Indian Laburnum] (ix) Putranjiva (x) Badh (xi) Sagwan (Teak Wood) (xii) Safed Siris (Albizia Procera) (xiii) Kala Siris (xiv) Anjeer CRL.REV.P 869/2017  of 4 (xv) Kathal- Jackfruit (xvi) Palash (xvii) Arni (xviii) Bistendu (xix) Rohida (xx) Medshingi 
An affidavit of compliance shall be filed by the petitioner as well as the DCF, failing which the Registry shall list the case for directions. Aerial pictures, prior to and after the afore-directed plantation, shall be obtained by the DCF and filed along with his affidavit. Similar quarterly updates shall be obtained by him to monitor and ensure the upkeep of the said plantation. A Report of the same shall be filed six months after the plantation, along with fresh photographs to show the health/status of the plantation. In case of default, the Registry shall list the case for directions. 
The petition and pending applications are accordingly, disposed of in the above terms. 
Copy of the order be communicated to the concerned Deputy Conservator of Forests (West). 
Order Dasti under signatures of the Court Master. AUGUST 08, 2019 SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J rk CRL.REV.P 869/2017  of 4 Ms. Deepa Arya vs The State &amp; Anr. on 14 August, 2019

Petitioners, in W.P. (Crl.) 2627/2018, seek quashing of FIR No. 14/2018 under Sections 387 / 454 / 427 / 354-D506 / 509 / 120-B IPC registered at Police Station Special Cell. subject FIR was registered on the complaint of Ms. Deepa Arya against the petitioners as also against SI Naresh Kumar alleging house-breaking, assault, abduction, threatening and intimidation on the ground that the petitioners had at the instigation of her brother entered into a conspiracy to interfere in her ownership rights in a property gifted to her by her mother. W.P. (CRL) 2627/2018 &amp; other connected matters  of 7 
Ms. Deepa Arya Petitioner, in W.P. (Crl.) 1545/2019, seeks quashing of FIR No. 82/2017 under Sections 387 / 509 IPC registered at Police Station Safdarjung Enclave. She in W.P. (Crl.) 1546/2019, seeks quashing of NCR No. 55/2018 under Section 500 IPC registered at Police Station Sabzi Mandi. In W.P. (Crl.) 1548/2019, she seeks quashing of FIR No. 242/2018 under Section 379 IPC registered at Police Station Sabzi Mandi and further in W.P. (Crl.) 1550/2019, she seeks quashing of NCR No. 90/2017 under Section 506 IPC registered at Police Station Safdarjung Enclave. Said FIRs are FIRs/Non Cognizable Reports on the complaint of the Petitioners in W.P. Crl. 2627/2018. 
Subject FIRs/NCRs emanate out of a family disputes and the petitioners and the respective complainants are members of the extended family. 
Since parties are members of the extended family, they were referred to Delhi High Court Mediation and conciliation Centre. Parties have entered into settlement dated 15.05.2019, whereby all disputes inter-se the parties have been resolved. 
Petitioners as also complainant - Ms. Deepa Arya are present in Court in person. They confirm the settlement agreement dated 
05.2019 and undertake that they shall abide by the terms and conditions of the said settlement agreement. The undertaking is accepted. W.P. (CRL) 2627/2018 &amp; other connected matters  of 7 
Ms. Deepa Arya further submits that since she has settled with the petitioners she does not wish to prosecute and charges or the allegations against the petitioners and also Sub Inspector Naresh Kumar. 
As per the settlement agreement, a sum of Rs. 15 lakhs is to be paid to Ms. Deepa Arya, complainant in the first installment. Said settlement amount of Rs. 15 lakhs has been paid in Court today by way of Pay Orders bearing Nos. 334508 dated 07.07.2019 for a sum of Rs. 5 lakhs issued by Oriental Bank of Commerce, 655898 dated 
07.2019 for a sum of Rs. 5 lakhs issued by Allahabad Bank and 655897 dated 11.07.2019 for a sum of Rs. 5 lakhs issued by Allahabad Bank favouring Ms. Deepa Arya. 
It is undertaken by the petitioners in W.P. Crl. 2627/2018 that as per the settlement agreement, the guards placed by the petitioners in premises No. 3/5 Rani Jhansi Road, Pahar Ganj, New Delhi shall be removed during the course of the day and the vacant peaceful possession of the premises, presently under their lock and key, shall be handed over to Ms. Deepa Arya on the conclusion of terms and conditions of this settlement. This undertaking is also accepted. 
In view of the fact that the parties are family members and have resolved their disputes and the respective complainants do not wish to press their complaints, continuation of criminal proceedings will be an exercise in futility and justice in the case demands that the dispute W.P. (CRL) 2627/2018 &amp; other connected matters  of 7 between the parties is put to an end and peace is restored; securing the ends of justice being the ultimate guiding factor. It would be expedient to quash the subject FIRs and the consequent proceedings emanating there from. 
Accordingly, the petitions are allowed. FIR No. 14/2018, under Sections 387 / 454 / 427 / 354-D / 506 / 509 / 365 / 120-B / 34 of the IPC Police Station Special Cell, FIR No. 82/2017 under Sections 387 / 509 of the IPC at Police Station Safdarjung Enclave, NCR No. 55/2018 under Section 500 IPC Police Station Sabzi Mandi, FIR No. 242/2018 under Section 379 IPC Police Station Sabzi Mandi and NCR No. 90/2017 under Section 506 IPC Police Station Safdarjung Enclave and the consequent proceedings emanating there from are quashed. 
Petitioners have volunteered to contribute to the society by planting trees. Accordingly it is directed that Ms. Deepa Arya shall plant 100 trees and Ms. Purnima Uppal, Mr. S.M. Goel, Mr. Gaurav Goel and Sub Inspector Naresh Kumar shall each plant 50 trees within a period of two weeks from today. 
Petitioners, for the aforesaid purpose shall report to the Deputy Conservator of Forests (West), who shall assign them duty to plant the trees in Central Ridge Reserve Forest, Budha Jayanti Park, Vandemataram Marg, New Delhi. The plants/trees shall be of deciduous indigenous variety with a nursery age of three and a half years, and a height of at least six feet. Depending upon the soil type W.P. (CRL) 2627/2018 &amp; other connected matters  of 7 and topography, the DCF may consider the following types of trees for plantation:- (i) Gular (Cluster Fig) (ii) Kadamba (Burflower Tree) (iii) Pilkhan (White Fig) (iv) Jaamun (Black Plum) (v) Bargad (Banyan (vi) Mango Tree) (vii) Amaltas (Golden (viii) Mahua (Butter Tree) Shower) [Indian Laburnum] (ix) Putranjiva (x) Badh (xi) Sagwan (Teak Wood) (xii) Safed Siris (Albizia Procera) (xiii) Kala Siris (xiv) Anjeer (xv) Kathal- Jackfruit (xvi) Palash (xvii) Arni (xviii) Bistendu (xix) Rohida (xx) Medshingi 
An affidavit of compliance shall be filed by the petitioners as well as the DCF, failing which the Registry shall list the case for directions. Aerial pictures, prior to and after the afore-directed plantation, shall be obtained by the DCF and filed along with his affidavit. Similar quarterly updates shall be obtained by him to monitor and ensure the upkeep of the said plantation. A Report of the W.P. (CRL) 2627/2018 &amp; other connected matters  of 7 same shall be filed six months after the plantation, along with fresh photographs to show the health/status of the plantation. In case of default, the Registry shall list the case for directions. 
The petitions are accordingly, disposed of in the above terms. 
Copy of the order be communicated to the concerned Deputy Conservator of Forests (West). 
Order Dasti under signatures of the Court Master. AUGUST 14, 2019 SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J &#39;rs&#39; W.P. (CRL) 2627/2018 &amp; other connected matters  of 7 Sh. Adi Malik vs State on 24 April, 2019

Petitioner impugns order dated 19.03.2019 whereby the appeal of the petitioner impugning order dated 22.11.2017 convicting the petitioner of an offence punishable under Sections 454 / 380 / 34 IPC and sentencing him to Simple Imprisonment for a period of six months for each of the offences has been dismissed. 
Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner had pleaded guilty before the Trial Court on 22.11.2017 with the expectation that keeping in view the mitigating circumstances and settlement with the complainant, petitioner would be acquitted or a CRL.REV.P 415/2019  of 6 lenient view would be taken. 
Learned counsel submits that petitioner had been arrested in one case and subsequently the present false case has been planted on the petitioner. Learned counsel further submits that the Trial Court erred in convicting the petitioner by order dated 22.11.2017 and recording his plea of guilt as the Trial Court had not yet reached the stage of framing of charge and as such could not have recorded any plea of guilt or otherwise in contravention of Section 240 &amp; 241 Cr.P.C. 
Learned APP points out that on the same date petitioner had pleaded guilty to not only the offences in the subject FIR but also to similar offences in another FIR. He submits that the order of the trial court and Appellate Court in the other FIR were also challenged by the petitioner in Crl. Revision petition No.414/2019, however, said petition has been dismissed by order dated 08.04.2019. 
Learned counsel for the petitioner per contra submits that order dated 08.04.2019 does not consider the legal proposition being raised in this petition. 
Petitioner is alleged to have committed the offence under Section 454 / 380 / 34 IPC. Perusal of order dated 22.11.2017 shows that on the said date charge sheet was filed. Same was checked and registered. Trial Court took cognizance of the offences. Copy of the CRL.REV.P 415/2019  of 6 chargesheet and other documents were supplied to the petitioner. Thereafter the petitioner submitted before the Court that he wanted to plead guilty. Accordingly, plea of guilt was recorded and order of conviction was passed. 
 Section 238 Cr.P.C. obligates the Magistrate to satisfy himself with regard to compliance of provisions of Section 207 i.e. supply to the accused of the copy of the police report and other documents. Thereafter, Section 239 Cr.P.C. requires the Magistrate to consider the police report and documents sent thereunder and in case situation so warrants discharge the accused if the Magistrate considers the charge against the accused to be groundless. Under Section 240 Cr.P.C., if upon consideration, examination and hearing the accused, the Magistrate is of the opinion that there is ground for presuming that the accused has committed the offence, and he is competent to try the same, he shall frame a charge in writing against the accused. 
The charge is thereafter to be read and the explained to the accused and he is to be asked whether he pleads guilty of the offences charged or claims to be tried. If the accused pleads guilty, under Section 241 Cr.P.C the Magistrate is to record the plea and in his discretion convict him thereon. 
Perusal of order dated 22.11.2017 shows that the accused was produced from judicial custody and there was no counsel representing the accused. Though the orders shows that the Magistrate warned the CRL.REV.P 415/2019  of 6 accused of the consequences of his pleading guilty, the Magistrate did not appoint an amicus to represent the accused. Legal counsel apparently was not made available to the accused at the stage when he pleaded guilty. 
Perusal of order dated 22.11.2017 further shows that there was no consideration by the magistrate, as is mandated under Section 239 and Section 240 Cr.P.C. Further, no charge was framed. As no charge was framed there was no question of the Magistrate at that stage to record the plea of guilt or otherwise of the accused, even if voluntarily made. 
Since the procedures prescribed by Sections 239 &amp; 240 were not followed the Magistrate could not have convicted the petitioner under Section 241 on his plea of guilt. 
Reference though may be had to Section 464 Cr.P.C which stipulates that no finding, sentence or order shall be deemed invalid merely on the ground that no charge was framed unless in the opinion of the Court of appeal, confirmation or revision, a failure of justice has in fact been occasioned thereby. 
In the present case there is apparently no compliance with Sections 239 and 240 i.e. consideration by the Magistrate of the police report and the material submitted before it and an opinion formed that charge should be framed. Further, no legal counsel apparently has CRL.REV.P 415/2019  of 6 been provided to the petitioner before recording his plea of guilt. 
In view of the above circumstances, I am satisfied that failure of justice has occasioned in the present case. 
The fact that petitioner had filed another revision petition challenging a similar order regarding a plea of guilt as also the dismissal of his appeal, in my view does not preclude the petitioner from raising a pure question of law as has been done in the present case. 
Further, perusal of order dated 08.04.2019 in Crl.Rev.P.414/2019 arising out of other proceedings shows that such a plea was neither raised nor considered by the Coordinate bench of this Court and as such mere dismissal of the revision petition arising out of other proceedings, in my view would not preclude the petitioner from raising such plea in these proceedings. 
As noticed above, I am satisfied that failure of justice has occasioned in the present case. Accordingly, the impugned orders dated 22.11.2017 of the Trial Court recording the plea of guilt and convicting the petitioner and the judgment dated 19.03.2019 of the Appellate Court dismissing his appeal are quashed. 
The matter is remitted to the Trial Court to the stage of Section 207 Cr.P.C. The Magistrate shall proceed further in accordance with the Cr.P.C. CRL.REV.P 415/2019  of 6 
The petition is allowed in the above terms. 
List the case before the Trial Court on 09.05.2019. 
Petitioner shall be produced from custody before the Trial Court on the said date, as he is incarcerated in other cases. 
In case there is no advocate appearing for the petitioner before the trial court, the Magistrate shall provide legal aid counsel to the petitioner to represent his case prior to proceeding further with the case. 
Copy of the order be forwarded to the Trial Court as also the concerned Superintendent jail for compliance. 
Order dasti under signatures of the Court Master. APRIL 24, 2019 SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J rk CRL.REV.P 415/2019  of 6 Suraj vs State on 14 January, 2019

Petitioner impugns order dated 06.06.2018 whereby charges have been framed against the petitioner. Petitioner also impugns order dated 17.11.2016 whereby the claim of the juvenility of the petitioner was rejected by the trial court. 
Learned counsel for the petitioner contends that the trial court CRL. REV. P. 1143/2018  of 8 had erred in framing a charge and treating the petitioner as a major and has further erred in relying on the medical opinion of the doctor declaring the petitioner to be aged about 19 years. 
Learned counsel submits that the doctor had relied on Modi&#39;s Medical Jurisprudence which has opined that the age, following the tests which were conducted, would be between 14 to 20 years. 
Learned counsel for petitioner submits that it is for the prosecution to establish that the inescapable conclusion was that the petitioner was a major and not vice-versa. 
Reliance was placed by learned counsel for the petitioner on the judgment of the Supreme Court in &#39;Veer Pal Singh Vs. Secretary, Ministry of Defence&#39; (2013) 8 SCC 83, wherein the Supreme Court has held as under: &#34;10. Although, the Courts are extremely loath to interfere with the opinion of the experts, there is nothing like exclusion of judicial review of the decision taken on the basis of such opinion. What needs to be emphasised is that the opinion of the experts deserves respect and not worship and the courts and other judicial/quasi-judicial forums entrusted with the task of deciding the disputes relating to premature release/discharge from the army cannot, in each and every case, refuse to examine the record of the Medical Board for determining whether or not the conclusion reached by it is legally sustainable.&#34; 
Learned Addl. PP appearing for the State submits that all CRL. REV. P. 1143/2018  of 8 contemporary documents show the date of birth of the petitioner as 05.08.1995 and the incident is of 28.05.2014 which places the age of the petitioner at 18 years and 9 months and the Medical Board also ascertained the age of the petitioner as between 18 years and 11 months and 19 years and 11 months and as such the inescapable conclusion is that the petitioner was major on the date of the commission of offence. 
Learned Addl. PP submits that the age of the petitioner was determined by order dated 17.11.2016 and the petitioner having failed to challenge the order dated 17.11.2016 is precluded from indirectly impugning the same by impugning the charge framed vide order dated 06.06.2018. 
As notice above, the incident took place on 22.06.2015 and claim of the juvenility was raised by the petitioner. On 30.05.2015, the trial court after conducting the inquiry to ascertain the age of the petitioner was of the view that the contemporary documents that were produced mentioned the date of birth of the petitioner as 05.08.1995. However, relying on the provision of Section 7 and Rule 12 of the Juvenile Justice Act, the trial court was of the view that none of the documents which were produced in inquiry were the ones stipulated as per the rules and accordingly the matter was referred to the Medical Board for rendering its opinion. 
After conducting appropriate tests, medical board has returned CRL. REV. P. 1143/2018  of 8 the finding that the petitioner was between 18 years and 11 months and 19 years and 11 months on the date of commission of the offence. 
Accordingly, the trial court by order dated 17.11.2016 returned a finding that petitioner, on the date of commission of the offence was a major. Said order was not challenged by the petitioner. Subsequently, the proceedings continued and culminated in an order dated 06.06.2018 framing charge against the petitioner for the offence under Section 302 / 34 IPC and Section 201 / 34 IPC. It is at this stage that the petitioner has sought to challenge the order rejecting his claim of juvenility. 
Perusal of order dated 30.05.2015 shows that all the documents that have been produced during inquiry show the date of birth of the petitioner as 05.08.1995 which leads to an inference that when the offence was commissioned, the petitioner was aged 18 years and 9 months. Since the documents stipulated by the rules were not available, the trial court referred the matter to the Medical Board which rendered an opinion that the petitioner on the date of commission of offence was aged 18 years and 11 months and 19 years and 11 months. The opinion of the Medical Board corroborates the documents produced by the Investigating Officer during the inquiry. No doubt that the documents which were examined during the inquiry, are not the documents which are stipulated under the rules, however, the documents corroborate the Medical Board&#39;s opinion that CRL. REV. P. 1143/2018  of 8 on the date of commission of offence the petitioner was more than 18 years of age. 
Reliance placed by the counsel for the petitioner on the Judgment in Veer Pal Singh (supra), is misplaced as the judgment is not applicable to the facts of the present case. 
In the present case, all evidence collected during inquiry and also the opinion Medical Board places the age of the petitioner at 18 years and 11 months and 19 years and 11 months. 
Trial court in the order dated 17.11.2016 has inter alia held as under: &#34;.....The medical report has been given by medical board comprising professors of physiology, Radiodiagnosis, forensic medicine and dental wing from the Safdarjung Hospital. There is no justification coming upon record to discard the report of the Board. There may be different studies on a particular aspect. The results may also vary. However, the study followed by the medical experts has to be taken into consideration. The opinion of the medical hoard is also duly corroborated by all the documents produced by CW1 and CW2 from two different schools pertaining to the age of the accused. Though the said documents were not found to be fit for consideration as per the scheme, however, all the documents were consistently showing the date of birth of accused as 05.08.1995, which shows that his age at the time of commission of offence was 18 years and 9 months thus fully corroborating the medical opinion which also shows that his age on the date of commission CRL. REV. P. 1143/2018  of 8 of offence was between 18 years 11 months to 19 years 11 months. The counsel for the accused has cross- examined both the witnesses CW-1 and CW-2 however the authenticity of the said documents were never challenged by the counsel for the accused The date of birth mentioned in the said certificates was never questioned. It is never the plea of the accused that the date of birth mentioned in the said documents was wrong. ***** ***** ***** Though all the above-said documents produced were consistently showing the date of birth of accused as 05.08.1995 thereby making his age at the time of commission of offence as 18 years and 9 months, however as per the procedure laid down in Section 7A and Rule 12 of Juvenile Justice Act; the scope of which has been vividly expressed in a number of judgments none of the above-said documents could be taken into consideration for the purpose of determining the age of accused Suraj. However, it has also come on record that all the said documents were produced on record by independent witnesses which were summoned by the court. While cross-examining CW-2 counsel for the accused has asked the witness as to whether the witness was aware of the previous school in which the accused was studying in class V. The accused however himself has neither provided any details of the school first attended by him nor any document from the school first attended has been produced which could be an intentional omission. CRL. REV. P. 1143/2018  of 8 A verification report produced by the IO from the concerned schools dated 02.05.2015 also shows that his date of birth was 05.08.1995 which meant that he was a major on the date of incident. Though the scheme of the Act has clearly provided for a sequence and the certificates which can be considered for the age determination enquiry. However, in my considered view the above-said documents does inspire confidence of this Court so as to prima facie consider them in corroboration to the medical opinion given by a duly constituted medical board. The said documents prima facie can be taken into consideration at least for the purpose of corroborating the medical opinion. In view of the aforesaid, hence what assures this Court about the estimate of age is the fact that the same is determined by a medical board comprising professors of physiology, Radiodiagnosis, forensic medicine and dental wing from the Safdarjung Hospital, which opinion must get the respect it deserves more specifically when also corroborated by other documents which have come up on record. The reliance placed by the counsel for the accused on a specific school of medical jurisprudence is of no help to the applicant. There is no justification coming up on record to discard the study which has been relied upon by the Medical Board while giving its opinion. As per the Medical Board opinion, the age of accused Suraj was between 20-21 years on the day of his examination i.e. 22.06.2015. The date of incident in the present case was 28.05.2014. After deducting the period between the date of offence and date of examination of accused Suraj by the Medical Board, the age of accused Suraj comes to around 18 years 11 months. The said opinion is also corroborated by four different documents produced on record by independent witnesses CRL. REV. P. 1143/2018  of 8 consistently showing his date of birth to be 05.08.1995 which meant that he was 18 years 9 months on the date of incident. In view of the aforesaid, I do not find any justification to discard the report filed by the Board. Hence, under the eventuality the accused is not entitled to the benefit. His plea hence is discarded.&#34; 
The trial court has very categorically considered the documents and also the medical opinion and returned a finding that the petitioner was a major on the date of commission of the offence and I find no infirmity in view taken by the trial court and accordingly I find no merit in the petition. The petition is accordingly dismissed. 
Order Dasti under signatures of the Court Master. SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J JANUARY 14, 2019 &#39;rs&#39; CRL. REV. P. 1143/2018  of 8 Jonu @ Monu vs State Govt. Of Nct Of Delhi &amp; Ors. on 3 September, 2019

 Premium Members Advanced Search Disclaimer Cites 2 docs Section 304A in The Indian Penal Code Section 287 in The Indian Penal Code Try out our Premium Member services: Virtual Legal Assistant , Query Alert Service and an ad-free experience. Free for one month and pay only if you like it. Delhi High Court Jonu @ Monu vs State Govt. Of Nct Of Delhi &amp; Ors. on 3 September, 2019 $31 * IN THE HIGH COURT OF DELHI AT NEW DELHI Date of decision: 03.09.2019 + CRL.M.C. 4400/2019 JONU @ MONU ..... Petitioner Through: Mr. Praveen Chaturvedi, Adv. With Ms. Jyoti Chaturvedi, Adv. Versus STATE GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI &amp; ORS. .... Respondents Through: Mr. Hirein Sharma, APP for State ASI Sukhbir Singh PS Tilak Nagar. CORAM: HON&#39;BLE MR. JUSTICE SURESH KUMAR KAIT J U D G M E N T (ORAL) CRL. M.A. 34956/2019 Allowed, subject to all just exceptions. Application is disposed of. CRL.M.C. 4400/2019 &amp; CRL. M.A. 34957/2019 Vide the present petition, the petitioner seeks quashing of criminal proceedings arising out of FIR No.229/2017 dated 12.05.2017, registered at Police Station Tilak Nagar, for the offences punishable under Sections 287 / 304A IPC and all other proceedings emanating therefrom. Notice issued. CRL.M.C.4400/2019  of 4 Notice is accepted by learned APP for the State and respondent nos.2 &amp; 3 are personally present in court and with the consent of the counsel for the parties, the present petition is taken up for final disposal. The present petition is filed on the ground that the parties have settled their disputes and the respondent Nos. 2 and 3 have no objection if the present petition is allowed. Respondent Nos.2 &amp;3 are personally present in Court with her counsel and they have been identified by ASI Sukhbir Singh/IO. They state that the matter has been settled and they have received compensation from Employees Compensation Commissioner, Delhi. Moreover, the petitioner had offered employment to respondent no.2 (widow of the deceased), however, she declined for the same as she could not stay in Delhi after the death of her husband. Respondent no.3/complainant is the co-employee of the deceased and he has no objection if the present petition is allowed. In the present case, chargesheet has already been allowed, however, charges have not been framed. Though the respondents have agreed not to prosecute the petitioner any further, this court is not inclined to allow the present petition on the ground that in the present case, the deceased has two CRL.M.C.4400/2019  of 4 minor children and widow and received compensation of an amount of ₹8,06,640/- along with interest @ 12% w.e.f. 11.06.2017 from Employees Compensation Commissioner, Delhi. Though the said compensation has been received from the statutory authority and since the petitioner has come for quashing of criminal proceedings arising out of the aforesaid FIR, therefore, this court feels it appropriate to give some more compensation to the widow so that she can look after her school going children aged 13 years and 10 years. At this stage, learned counsel for the petitioner, on instructions from the petitioner, who is personally present in court, has come forward and agreed to pay an amount of ₹1 lac each in favour of the minor children of the deceased. In view of above facts and circumstances, in the interest of justice and for the welfare of the children of the deceased, further keeping in view the settlement arrived at between the parties, I hereby quash the FIR No.229/2017 dated 12.05.2017, registered at Police Station Tilak Nagar, for the offences punishable under Sections 287 / 304A IPC and all other proceeding emanating therefrom. CRL.M.C.4400/2019  of 4 The petitioner is directed to issue two FDRs of ₹1 lac each in the name of the minor children of the deceased with renewal mode and that the amount shall be released in favour of the children after attaining the majority. I hereby make it clear that for the purpose of educational requirement of the children, if the widow of the deceased feels that she needs money, she may approach this court, accordingly. Petition is accordingly allowed and disposed of. The aforesaid directions shall be complied with within two weeks from the receipt of this order. The trial court shall ensure compliance of the order/directions passed by this court. Pending application also stands disposed of. Order dasti under the signatures of the Court Master.Neeraj Sharma vs State Of Nct Delhi on 25 November, 2019

Vide the present petition, petitioner seeks anticipatory bail in FIR No. 36/2018 dated 14.01.2018 registered at Police Station - Prashant Vihar, District Rohini, Delhi for the offences punishable under Section 420 read with Section 34 IPC. 
Case of the petitioner as averred in the present petition is that the complainant started the work from September, 2009 and did not complete the same within 8 months and left the construction work in between and went to Bombay and thereafter Smt. Sneh Lata Sharma got the work BAIL APPLN. 2150/2018  of 13 completed in 2013 after using all her sources. The time was never extended by the Complainant with the deceased Sneh Lata Sharma after entering into agreement. In the agreement, the petitioner&#39;s signature were obtained as one of the witnesses and on the first and second page also, which were not required at all. The petitioner was not the owner of the property and the agreement was only between the deceased - Sneha Lata Sharma and complainant - Mohan Lal Bansal and not with the petitioner. The signature of the deceased was not obtained on the last page of the Agreement. 
The whole construction was to be carried out by the complainant and he was to get profit on the sale of the Floors as he was to construct four floors with parking and lift, which he never completed &amp; left the construction in between i.e. in March 2010 itself. 
The petitioner&#39;s mother (Smt. Sneh Lata) got the construction completed through contractor after incurring huge losses in the construction project and it took her 3 years time to get everything rectified/changed or reconstructed because of complainant not using good material for construction. When, in fact, the time was of the essence in the contract and complainant was to complete the construction work within 8 months from 01.08.2009 but he left the construction within a period of 7 months and did BAIL APPLN. 2150/2018  of 13 not turn up thereafter. 
It is further stated in the present petition that after spending huge expenses, the petitioner&#39;s mother sold upper ground floor to one Smt. Neetu Rana &amp; First Floor to her daughter namely Smt. Sonu Sethi against sale consideration. Both the sale deeds were executed and signed by Smt. Sneh Lata Sharma as owner and there was no role of the present petitioner or any other family member in any manner in the execution of the Sale Deeds. 
Mr. Ahuja, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner submits that as on date, the second and third floor of the subject matter of the property are lying vacant and complainant has been trying his best to create hurdles/hindrances so that the property of Smt. Sneh Lata Sharma (since deceased) be not sold by petitioner and has been convincing the local property dealers/estate agents not to purchase the property because of the dispute which has been falsely created by the complainant. 
It is further submitted that the complainant filed the civil suit before the District Judge, Rohini Courts for a sum of ₹1,50,00,000/- (Rupees One Crore Fifty Lakhs) against the present petitioner, which is pending in the Court of learned Additional District Judge, Rohini, Delhi and pending for disposal. The petitioner has to file the written statement though he has BAIL APPLN. 2150/2018  of 13 already moved the application under Order 7 Rule 11 of C.P.C.. The suit which has been filed by the complainant is barred by time and that is the reason the application has been moved by the petitioner for rejection of the plaint. 
It is further submitted that despite the fact that the dispute between the petitioner and the complainant is purely of civil nature, therefore, there was no question to lodge the FIR against the petitioner on 14.01.2018 with the Police Station - Prashant Vihar. 
To strengthen his arguments, learned counsel for petitioner has relied upon the case of Ravindra Saxena vs. State of Rajasthan , (2010) 1 SCC 684, whereby the Hon&#39;ble Supreme Court has held that the High Court ought not to have left the matter to the Magistrate only on the ground that the challan has now been presented. There is also no reason to deny anticipatory bail merely because the allegation in this case pertains to cheating or forgery of a valuable security. The merits of these issues shall have to be assessed at the time of the trial of the accused persons and denial of anticipatory bail only on the ground that the challan has been presented would not satisfy the requirements of Sections 437 and 438 Cr.P.C. 
Also relied on the case of The Commissioner of Police &amp; Ors. vs. BAIL APPLN. 2150/2018  of 13 Devender Anand &amp; Ors . in Criminal Appeal No. 834/2017, whereby the Hon&#39;ble Supreme Court has held that criminal proceedings initiated by the complainant is nothing but an abuse of the process of law for settling a civil dispute. No case is made out for taking cognizance of the offence under Section 420 / 34 IPC after the civil dispute to be settled by the civil case, therefore, the Court should not reject the anticipatory bail. 
The case of the complainant that he is a Senior Citizen and is retired Government Officer. He was living alone as he had no son and his wife expired in the year 2010. In the year 2009, the accused Nos. 1 to 3, namely, Neeraj Sharma, Madhu Sharma and Monika Sharma who were living in his adjoining flat, contacted him and talked about construction of their plot bearing No.E-144, area measuring 80.78 sq. meters, Prashant Vihar, Delhi- 34 and the same plot was in the name of Sneh Lata Sharma, who was mother of the accused nos. l to 3. The whole family of the accused no.l including the sisters, wife, mother and father requested him to construct the plot from his funds. In this regard, an agreement for construction of four floors plus car parking over the said plot was executed between Sneh Lata Sharma (since deceased) and complainant on 01.08.2009 with the consent of whole family of accused nos. l to 3. BAIL APPLN. 2150/2018  of 13 
As per the agreement, complainant constructed four floors and car parking and spent an amount of ₹50 Lakhs approximately. The complainant constructed the entire building and then the complainant became partner/ shareholder in entire building to the extent of 1/2 share/profit along with Sneh Lata. She was owner of the said plot, but when the construction was carried out, she was joint shareholder with him, hence she had no sole right to sell any portion of the property in question. After the completion of entire construction work, the accused nos. l to 3 became dishonest and in order to grab the benefit/share of the complainant, they hatched a conspiracy with each other as well as in collusion with the accused No.4 and 5 and deceased Sneh Lata. The accused nos. l to 3 had instigated her mother Sneh Lata with malafide intention to transfer the upper ground floor of the building in the name of accused no. 4 in collusion with the accused no.5, to which they have no right to transfer the upper ground floor in favour of the accused no.4 vide Sale Deed no.4177 dated 14.06.2013, without consent and permission of the complainant. 
When the complainant became the shareholder of the property in question, then the accused nos. l to 3 and their mother had no right to mention in the said Sale Deed no.4177 that &#34;property is free from all sorts of BAIL APPLN. 2150/2018  of 13 encumbrances such as liens, charges, claims, liabilities, acquisitions, injunctions or attachments from any court of law, gifts, mortgages, demands, notices, notifications, legal disputes, differences, decree and flaws etc, prior to sale and the vendor is fully entitled/ empowered to dispose of the same&#34;. 
Thus, all the accused knew that the complainant had constructed the entire property under his supervision, arranged materials, engaged contractors and spent a huge amount and is the partner/shareholder in the property in question and despite knowing all facts, accused show themselves as exclusive owners of the property in question in order to grab the share of the complainant. The accused used the previous sale deed which was in the name of deceased Sneh Lata as genuine and on the basis of the said sale deed, they fraudulently further transferred the said property in question as Sneh Lata and her family members were not full owners of the property in question after the construction of the property by complainant as per the agreement. Thus, the case of the complainant is that accused nos. l and 2 knowingly, deliberately and with malafide intention and by using the fabricated documents, with an ulterior motive to sell the share of the complainant in the name of accused no.4 in collusion with the accused no.5. BAIL APPLN. 2150/2018  of 13 
Learned counsel for the petitioner has pointed out that the notice dated 07.10.2013 was issued only to the mother of the petitioner but not to the petitioner. Since the mother of the petitioner has expired, therefore, the petitioner has been implicated falsely in the present case after her death. 
On the other hand, learned APP appearing on behalf of the State submits that the custodial interrogation of the petitioner is required to find out true nature of the cheating committed in the present case from the documents placed on record, including the Sale Deed dated 14.06.2013. The petitioner/ accused had signed as a witness thereon in which it is stated that the property is free from all sorts of encumbrances. As per the agreement dated 01.08.2009 between the mother of the petitioner and the complainant regarding the construction of four floors in plot No. E-144, area measuring 
78 sq. meters, Prashant Vihar, Delhi-34 and as per the terms of the said agreement, profit was to be shared equally between the parties. 
As submitted by the learned counsel for petitioner that an amount of ₹5 lakhs has already been paid in favour of the complainant, who spent only an amount of ₹35 lakhs. It is not in dispute that the petitioner is on interim protection since 09.04.2018 and has been joining investigation during interim protection as and when called by the IO. It is also not in dispute that BAIL APPLN. 2150/2018  of 13 the petitioner is a witness to the agreement and to each and every receipt of payment, the petitioner&#39;s signatures are there. The MOU for construction of the building (4 floors) was between the mother of the petitioner and complainant, despite the complainant spent huge amount for construction of the building and subsequently, he became the shareholder, however, without her consent, two floors of the same have been sold in June, 2013 but no amount is paid to the complainant. 
It is not in dispute that if a case is of civil nature, then the other party cannot misuse the law by lodging a criminal complaint against the opposite party. But I am of the opinion that if an innocent person has been cheated and caused loss with malafide intention, which is in the present case, then there is no bar on filing civil as well as criminal case against the defaulter (petitioner herein). In the present case, if the complainant succeeds, the petitioner/ accused would get the imprisonment as punishment but no amount would come in favour of the complainant. Therefore, the complainant filed suit for recovery within limitation so that he would get the amount. Simultaneously, since the petitioner had cheated in connivance with his mother and other accused, therefore, to teach the lesson and send the message to the society that such person cannot go free from the clutches of BAIL APPLN. 2150/2018  of 13 the law. 
In the present case, as admitted by the petitioner, the complainant has spent ₹35 lakhs and of that ₹5 lakhs have already been paid. The said fact has been disputed by the learned counsel for the complainant and submits that complainant has spent ₹50 lakhs and only an amount of ₹5 lakhs has been received. 
On perusal of the legal notice dated 07.10.2013, it is found mentioned in Para 5 that son of the deceased once again asked the complainant to furnish records related to total expenditure. In Para 8, it is specifically stated that the mother of the petitioner and the petitioner being her representative who gave active assistance to her mother in construction of the plot, as per the agreement, left the construction site in February, 2010 without giving any information to the complainant. In the same Para, it is further stated that in the beginning, both Neeraj (petitioner herein) and his father used to quarrel at the site for attending the site. After their quarrel, they used to leave the site in anguish, leaving the complainant alone to handle all the work. Thus, the petitioner played an active role in getting the construction done and thereafter, the mother of the petitioner sold the flat with consent of the petitioner and without the knowledge and consent of the complainant. BAIL APPLN. 2150/2018  of 13 
Since the petitioner has been enjoying interim protection granted by this Court pursuant to order dated 09.04.2018, therefore, the required document has not handed over by the petitioner to IO of the case. Therefore, I am of the considered view that in the present case, the custodial interrogation of the petitioner is required to recover the documents and the amount siphoned off by the petitioner by cheating the complainant. 
In view of the above, if in such case, anticipatory bail is granted, there will be great prejudice to the complainant and very wrong message will go to the public at large. Therefore, I find no merit in the present case, the application is accordingly dismissed. 
Before parting with this petition, it is pertinent to mention here that directions were passed by this Court in Bail Application No. 2109 titled &#39; Anil Kumar vs. State&#39; to the Commissioner of Police to issue directions to the Investigating Officers to bring updated and complete file to the Court when summoned in a bail matter or any other matter. Accordingly, a Circular No. 12/2019 dated 24.10.2019 was issued by the Commissioner of Police, Delhi as under: &#34;In view of above, all DCPs/ Districts and Units are directed to ensure that:- BAIL APPLN. 2150/2018  of 13 (i) Any Police Officer, who is dealing a bail matter, any other Court matter shall bring updated and complete case files to the concerned Court along with the response, when summoned in a bail or any other matter. (ii) The IO must be well aware of the crux of the statements recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. and shall be present in the Court well before time to brief the Government Counsel/PP/APP properly so that he/she could argue the matter before the Court and satisfy the conscience of the concerned Court. (iii) The reply shall be carefully examined by the SHO or Inspector (Investigation) before counter-signing it. He shall not forward the reply in a routine and mechanical manner. (iv) It must be ensured that the IO must personally appear before the Court and he/she must not be substituted ordinarily. Meticulous compliance of the above directions must be ensured.&#34; 
In the present case, when this Court asked about the case diary and the statement of the witnesses recorded till date from the SI Vijay Kumar, who is personally present in Court, he submits that the original IO is busy in the Trial Court to give the evidence and also submits that in the file, which he produced, statements of the witnesses recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. is not there. Thus, there was no assistance from the learned Prosecutor in this matter due to the lack of knowledge of the police official present in the Court in this matter. It is pertinent to mention here that vide Circular No. 12 of 2019 dated 24.10.2019, all the DCPs (District and Units) were directed to BAIL APPLN. 2150/2018  of 13 ensure the compliance as noted above. Since no steps have been taken by the DCP, Rohini District, therefore let the said officer be personally present in Court to explain as to why he has not been supervising the work as per the Circular No. 12 of 2019 dated 24.10.2019. 
For the aforesaid purpose, renotify on 28.11.2019. 
I again remind to all the IOs/SHOs/DCPs concerned to comply with the aforementioned Circular in its letter and spirit when matter comes before the Court. 
Let the order passed by this Court be transmitted to Commissioner of Police, Delhi for taking steps accordingly.Lokesh Kumar vs State (Nct Of Delhi) &amp; Anr. on 12 February, 2019

Petitioner impugns judgment dated 17.09.2016 whereby the Appellate Court has dismissed the appeal of the petitioner impugning order on conviction dated 26.04.2016 and order on sentence dated 05.05.2016. Petitioner has been convicted of an offence under Section 380 and Section 454 Part II of the Indian Penal Code and sentenced to undergo 2½ years imprisonment with fine of Rs.5000/- in default 3 months SI for the offence under Section 380 IPC and RI for 3 three years and fine of Rs.5000/-, in default 3 months SI for the offence under Section 454 para II. Both sentences to run successively CRL.Rev.P.831/2016  of 5 
The subject FIR was registered on the complaint of one Kaushik Ganguly (examined as PW-1 before the Trial Court) who contended that he had locked his house while going out and on return found the door of the balcony open. When he ran towards the balcony he saw one person jumping from the balcony and running away. When he raised an alarm some passers by caught the said person. From the possession of the said person property of the complainant inter-alia documents, fast track watch, Nokia mobile were recovered. Said person is stated to be the Petitioner. 
Learned counsel for the petitioner inter-alia contends that the Trial Court as well as the Appellate Court have erred in not appreciating that no offence under Section 454 IPC is made out as the ingredients of Section 443 IPC are not made out. 
Learned counsel submits that petitioner has already undergone 3 years 10 months and 20 days of incarceration as on 06.02.2019 and earned remissions of 9 months and 25 days and the remaining portion of sentence is 9 months and 7 days (if fine paid as on 06.02.2019). 
PW.1 Kaushik Ganguly in his evidence before the Trial Court has inter-alia stated as under:- &#34;On 08.03.2015 at about 6:00 PM I had locked my house and at about 6:30 PM when I returned back I saw that the door of balcony of my house was open. I immediately ran towards the balcony and saw that one person jumped from the balcony and was running. I raised alarm and CRL.Rev.P.831/2016  of 5 immediately went down and saw that some passerby had caught the said person (Accused is present in the court today and correctly identified by the witness). Some public person had also gathered at the spot. Accused was carrying a bag and on checking the same it was found containing one remote of my Tata Sky, photocopies of some documents, my fastrack watch, my Nokia mobile of black colour, my candle stand which were stolen by him and some other documents and articles. On inquiry, the name of accused was revealed as Lokesh.&#34; 
 Section 443 IPC reads as under:- 
Lurking house-trespass.--Whoever commits house-trespass having taken precautions to conceal such house-trespass from some person who has a right to exclude or eject the trespasser from the building, tent or vessel which is the subject of the tres-pass, is said to commit &#34;lurking house- trespass&#34;. 
In terms of Section 443 for a person to commit lurking house- trespass, the prosecution not only has to establish house trespass but has also to prove that the accused has taken precautions to conceal such house-trespass from some person who has a right to exclude or eject the trespasser. 
Statement of PW-1 shows that when he returned he saw the door of the balcony of the house open which establishes that there was no attempt made by the petitioner to conceal the house-trespass. Since there is no evidence to show that petitioner had not taken any precaution to conceal the house trespass, so the offence of lurking CRL.Rev.P.831/2016  of 5 house trespass is not made out. 
However, when we look at Section 445 - House breaking, which is also punishable under section 454 IPC, it is clear that the said offence is made out. Section 445 IPC reads as under:- 
House breaking.--A person is said to commit &#34;house-breaking&#34; who commits house-trespass if he effects his entrance into the house or any part of it in any of the six ways hereinafter de-scribed; or if, being in the house or any part of it for the purpose of committing an offence, or, having committed an offence therein, he quits the house or any part of it in any of such six ways, that is to say-- (First) --.................. (Secondly) --If he enters or quits through any passage not intended by any person, other than himself or an abettor of the offence, for human entrance; or through any passage to which he has obtained access by scaling or climbing over any wall or building. (Thirdly)-- ........................... 
The petitioner in the subject case scaled the wall and climbed over to the first floor for gaining access through the balcony. Thus petitioner has entered the house through a passage not intended for human entrance and has obtained access by climbing to the balcony and thus committed the offence of house breaking. 
Perusal of the evidence as also the testimony of PW-1 shows that there is no infirmity in the order of the Trial Court in convicting CRL.Rev.P.831/2016  of 5 the petitioner for the offence under Section 380 and 454 Secondly IPC. However, on the quantum of sentence it may be seen that petitioner has been in custody and the sentences have been directed to run successively. Petitioner has already undergone nearly 4 years 9 months of incarceration out of the total period of 5½ years. It is stated that fine has already been paid. 
Keeping in view the totality of facts and circumstances, I am of the view that though the order on conviction does not warrant any interference, however, interest of justice requires that the cumulative sentence of the petitioner for both the offences be reduced to the period already undergone. Petitioner shall however pay the fine imposed, if not already paid. 
In view of the above, the Petitioner is directed to be released, if not required in any other case. 
Petition is accordingly disposed of in the above terms. 
Order Dasti under signatures of the Court Master. 
Order be also communicated to the Superintendent, Jail for compliance. FEBRUARY 12, 2019/ rk SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J CRL.Rev.P.831/2016  of 5 Sh. Anjum Asgar Zaidi vs State on 20 May, 2019

Petitioner impugns order on charge dated 01.11.2017 whereby the petitioner has been charged for having committed an offence punishable under Section 30 of the Arms Act. 
The allegations in the FIR are that during screening of the hand baggage at the Airport, in the bag of the petitioner, one live ammunition of .32 bore was found. FIR was registered against the petitioner alleging violation of Sections 25 / 54 / 59 of the Arms Act. 
At the time of framing of charge after hearing arguments, the trial court was of the view that a charge under Section 30 of the Arms CRL.REV.P 150/2019  of 5 Act was liable to be framed. 
Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner had a valid arms licence and since he was enroute to Lucknow and the closest Airport from Noida was IGI Airport at Delhi, he had to catch his flight from Delhi. He submits that the petitioner was not aware that there was a live cartridge in the trolley bag which was carried in the hand-baggage. The fact that the petitioner was not conscious of the presence of the live cartridge is borne out from the fact that there was no attempt by the petitioner to conceal the same at the time of putting the bag for x-ray screening. 
Learned counsel further submits that mens rea would be required for constituting an offence under Section 30 of the Arms Act and relies the judgment of this Court in Crl. M.C No. 854/2018 &#39;Jasbir Chahal Vs. State&#39; dated 07.05.2018 (2018 SCC OnLine Del 8839) and as also judgments of the coordinate benches of this Court in Gaganjot Singh Vs. State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi), 2014, SCC Online Del. 6885; Jaswinder Singh Vs. State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi), 2015 SCC Online Del 10894; Sonam Choudhary Vs. State; 2016 SCC Online Del 47; Mandeep lambs Vs. State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi); 2017 SCC Online Del 9885 and of the Supreme Court in Gunwant lal Vs. State of Madhya Pradesh (1972) 2 SCC 194 and Abdul Nasir Barich Vs. State (NCT of Delhi), 2014 (1) JCC 168. 
The petitioner is a permanent resident of Noida (UP) and was CRL.REV.P 150/2019  of 5 catching a flight from Indira Gandhi International Airport, Delhi (in short &#39;IGI Airport&#39;) enroute to Lucknow. The petitioner has a valid arms licence, however, the licence was valid only for the State of Uttar Pradesh. 
FIR was initially registered against the petitioner under Section 25 of the Arms Act which entails punishment of not less than three years and which may extend upto seven years besides fine. Section 30 of the Arms Act is a punishment of contravention of any condition of a licence or the rule and entails punishment for a term which may extend to six months or with fine which may extend to Rs. 2500/- or with both. 
The allegations against the petitioner is that the petitioner contravened the condition of a licence, in as much as, carried a live cartridge beyond the State of Uttar Pradesh. 
It is settled proposition of law that possession under Section 25 of the Arms Act refers to not only physical possession but also the requisite mental element i.e. mens rea of conscious possession. In the absence of conscious possession of the live cartridge, which cannot be used for any purpose, Section 45(d) of the Arms Act would be applicable and it would be justified to end all such proceedings to secure the ends of justice. 1 1 Jasbir Chahal versus State 2018 SCC OnLine Del 8839 Gunwant lal Vs. State of Madhya Pradesh (1972) 2 SCC 194 CRL.REV.P 150/2019  of 5 
In the subject case, petitioner did not make any attempt to conceal the live cartridge in the bag and had handed over the bag for x-ray screening. It is common knowledge that in case any arms or ammunition are present in a bag which is screened by X-ray, the arm and ammunition would be easily detected unless attempt is made to conceal the same. It is not the case of the prosecution that any attempt was made by the petitioner to conceal the same so as to avoid detection. Clearly petitioner did not have the conscious possession. Further the record does not show any material to suggest any reasonable ground for suspicion to even justify conscious possession of the live cartridges recovered from the baggage of the petitioner. There is no material on record to show that the petitioner was conscious of the possession of the live cartridges. 
From the perusal of the record it can be safely inferred that the presence of live cartridge in the hand bag was not within the knowledge of the petitioner and petitioner did not have the requisite mens rea for committing the said offence. 
The impugned order further shows that the trial court was also conscious of the fact that the petitioner could not have had the requisite mens rea and that appears to be the reason that charge was not framed under Section 25 (under which the FIR and Charge Sheet was filed) and was framed only under Section 30 of the Arms Act. 
The case of the petitioner is squarely covered by the decisions CRL.REV.P 150/2019  of 5 of this Court and also the judgment of the Supreme Court in Gunwantlal Vs. State of Madhya Pradesh; (1972) 2 SCC 194. 
In view of the above, the impugned order on charge is clearly not sustainable and is accordingly set aside. The petitioner is accordingly discharged. 
The petition is allowed in the above terms. 
Order dasti under signatures of the Court Master. MAY 20, 2019 SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J &#39;rs&#39; CRL.REV.P 150/2019  of 5 Bindu &amp; Anr. vs State Of Nct Of Delhi on 1 July, 2019

Petitioners impugn order dated 28.03.2017 whereby the Revisional Court has reversed the order on charge dated 28.01.2017 passed by the Trial Court in case FIR No.944/2015 under Section 323 / 341 / 354 / 509 / 506 / 34 IPC, P.S.Vasant Kunj (North). 
By order dated 28.01.2017, the Trial Court had discharged the petitioners of all offences. By the impugned order dated 28.03.2017 CRL.REV. P..406/2017  of 10 the Revisional Court set aside the order of the Trial Court discharging the petitioners and directed framing of a charge under Section 323 / 34 against the petitioners and under Section 509 and 354 against the petitioner No.2. 
Subject FIR was registered on the complaint of one Ms. Vandana Sharma. Petitioners are the mother and son and neighbours of the complainant. 
As per the allegations in the FIR at about 10 PM complainant was driving back home. When she came to park her car, her neighbour along with her son (petitioners herein) stepped out from their car and stood in front of her car and stopped her from parking. 
It is alleged that the other neighbour, Mr. Dawood was also parking his car alongside the complainant&#39;s car. She stepped out to greet her neighbour, Mr. Dawood and requested him to park the car diagonally to which he agreed and assisted her in parking the car. 
It is alleged that when the complainant stepped out of the car, she switched on the phone&#39;s video to record petitioner No.1&#39;s shouting, abusing and use of vulgar language against her and her neighbour. While she was video recording, petitioners started physically assaulting her and tried to snatch her phone. CRL.REV. P..406/2017  of 10 
It is alleged that petitioner No.1 started pulling her clothes and hitting her and her son (petitioner No.2) also joined her. It is alleged that they assaulted and threatened her that she could not video graph and manhandled her. 
The complainant further alleges that she heard petitioner No.1 telling her neighbour that she is a whore. The old woman is a whore and don&#39;t support her. It is alleged that the complainant thereafter went to her neighbour, the President of the Resident Welfare Association and apprised him of what had transpired. The other neighbour, Mr. Dawood was also present and he said that he would be happy to record what he saw to the police. 
The FIR further alleges that petitioner No.1 and her family had been humiliating her for the last 15 years and made other allegations of harassment in the past. 
In her subsequent statement given under Section 164 Cr.P.C, the complainant in addition to what she had stated in her initial complaint added that she used her phone to video graph, however, when she got out of the car, petitioner No.1 came and pulled her and grappled her collar and slapped her. She and her son (petitioner No.2) tried to snatch the phone and therefore, she could not record anything that happened. She alleges that when petitioner No.1 was hitting her CRL.REV. P..406/2017  of 10 and abusing her, her son (petitioner No.2) grabbed her and put his hand inside her T-shirt and assaulted her. 
The Trial Court in the order dated 28.01.2017 has noticed that there are contradictions in the statement of the complainant. Earlier she had stated that petitioner No.1 was shouting, abusing and using vulgar language against her to her neighbour but did not say the same in her statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. She stated that she was assaulted in the presence of Mr. Dawood and Mr. Dawood denied the same and has stated that petitioner No.2 was not standing near the complainant. In view of the clear discrepancy in the statement of the complainant and the contradiction in the statement given by the neighbour, Mr. Dawood that petitioner No.2 was not standing close to her, the Trial Court was of the view that the allegation that petitioner No.2 has put his hands in the clothes of the complainant appeared to be doubtful. 
Trial Court was further of the view that since the quarrel was regarding car parking, the element of using criminal force or assault of the nature to outrage the modesty of the complainant was not made out. 
Further the allegation that video recording was made by the complainant was also not substantiated as no such video recording CRL.REV. P..406/2017  of 10 was seized during the course of investigation. Further there was no medical record and photographs of the alleged injury sustained by the complainant. Trial Court was of the view that in view of the improvement in the allegations made by the complainant and the contradictions in the version of the complainant which become apparent from the statement of Mr. Dawood who as per the complainant was present on the spot, there was no ground to give rise to grave suspicion against the petitioners and accordingly discharged the petitioners. 
By the impugned order the Revisional Court set aside the order of the Trial Court. The Revisional Court held that though the Trial Court had the power to sift through the evidence but the Trial Court cannot make a roving inquiry into the pros and cons of the matter and weigh evidence as if a trial was being conducted. 
The Revisional Court was of the view that the Trial Court could not go into the probity of the evidence or the testimonies. The Revisional Court relied on the statement given under Section 164 Cr.P.C and was of the view that there was prima facie sufficient evidence to frame charge against the petitioners under Section 323 read with Section 34 IPC and under Section 509 and Section 354 IPC against petitioner No.1. CRL.REV. P..406/2017  of 10 
The Supreme Court in Union of India v. Prafulla . Kumar Samal, (1979) 3 SCC 4 has held that at the stage of framing of charge the Trial Court has the power to sift and weigh evidence though for a limited purpose and finding out whether or not a prima facie case against the accused has been made out. 
Charge would be framed not on mere suspicion but on the facts giving rise to grave suspicion of the accused having committed the offence. 
In the present case it may be seen that in the FIR which was registered on the complaint of the prosecutrix there is no allegation that petitioner No.2 i.e. son of petitioner No.1 put his hand in her T- shirt and assaulted her. The allegation leveled is that petitioner No.1 started pulling her clothes and hitting her and her son (petitioner No.2) also joined in the assault and threatened that she could not video graph and assaulted and manhandled. There are clear contradictions between what she has stated in her written complaint to the SHO and in her statement recorded under section 164 Cr.P.C.. There are clear improvements, wherein she states that petitioner No.2 grabbed her, put his hand inside her T-shirt and then assaulted her. CRL.REV. P..406/2017  of 10 
The fact that there is clear improvement in the allegation leveled against petitioner No.2, so as to bring in the offence under Section 354 IPC, raises doubt on the version of the complainant. 
Supreme Court in State Vs. Arun Kumar &amp; Anr. 2014 SCC Online SC 1018 has held that even at the stage of charge, if two views are possible and one of the views gives rise to suspicion only as distinct, from grave suspicion, the Court would be empowered to discharge accused at that stage. 
Reference may also be had to the judgment of the Supreme Court in George &amp; Ors. vs. State of Kerala &amp; Anr .: (1998) 4 SCC 605, wherein, the Supreme Court has held that the statement of the witnesses recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C cannot be used as substantive evidence and can be used for the purposes of contradicting or corroborating such witness. 
The first version given to the police is more reliable than an improved version which comes in later, after the complainant has had an opportunity to mulling over the facts. Any improvement which is made in the statement first given is liable to be disregarded, if it appears to the court that the subsequent statement is unreliable. 
The complainant herself in her statement has stated that there was an independent eye witness to the entire incident i.e. Mr. CRL.REV. P..406/2017  of 10 Dawood. However, Mr. Dawood in his statement to the police did not support the version given by the complainant and has contradicted her story. Particularly, her improved version, given at the time of recording of her statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. 
No doubt, Mr. Dawood does support that there was a verbal altercation between the petitioner No. 1 and the complainant, however, he clearly contradicts the version with regard to physical assault by the petitioners and also the involvement of petitioner No.2 in physical and verbal assault. 
It is one thing to say that an independent eye witness in his statement does not state anything about the incident and another to state that he does describe the incident but contradicts the version of the complainant. 
In the present case the independent eye witness does give his version of the incident, which, contradicts the version of the complainant. Not supporting the version of the complainant is distinct and different from contradicting the version of the complainant. If an independent eye witness claims not to have witnessed the incident and does not state anything about the incident and does not support the version of the complainant, his statement can be disregarded, however, where an independent eye witness admits to being a witness CRL.REV. P..406/2017  of 10 and makes a statement about the incident but contradicts the version of the complainant, credence would have to be given to his version, more so, when the complainant herself has stated that the said eye witness was present throughout the incident. 
Mr. Dawood in his statement about the incident has contradicted the version of the complainant, so, credence would have to be given to his statement. Further as per the complainant she was video recording the verbal abuses and assault, however, no such video recording was produced during investigation by the complainant, to support her case. 
The Trial Court had rightly held that there are clear contradictions in the statement of the complainant particularly with regard to the involvement of the petitioner No.2 in the incident and about his alleged conduct of putting his hands in her T-shirt and assaulting her. 
The facts as noticed above do not give rise to grave suspicion against the accused for framing of a charge against them under Section 354 / 509 / 506 / 323 / 341 / 34 IPC. There is no medical or other evidence to substantiate the allegations leveled by the complainant. 
The Revisional Court has clearly committed an error in interfering with the well reasoned order of the Trial Court holding that CRL.REV. P..406/2017  of 10 no prima facie case giving rise to grave suspicion was made out against the petitioners. 
In view of the above, the impugned order dated 28.03.2017 of the Revisional Court reversing the order on charge dated 28.01.2017 is not sustainable. The same is accordingly set aside. 
The revision petition is allowed in the above terms. Petitioners are discharged of the offences. 
Order dasti under the signature of the Court Master. SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J JULY 01, 2019 rk CRL.REV. P..406/2017  of 10 Sushila Yadav vs State Of Nct (Delhi) &amp; Anr. on 19 February, 2019

Petitioner impugns judgment dated 13.03.2015 whereby the revisional court has set aside the order on charge dated 17.11.2014 whereby the charge was framed by the trial court against respondent no. 2 under Section 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 of the IPC and the respondent no. 2 was discharged. 
Petitioner- Original Complainants have impugned the said order inter-alia on the ground that no notice under Section 401 Cr. P.C. was issued to them prior to the Revisional Court passing an order which CRL.REV.P 274/2015  of 24 was averse to their interests. Secondly the petitioner impugns the order contending that the order on charge was an order on correct appreciation of documents and other material and evidence and the statements of witnesses which were filed along with the chargesheet. 
Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the revisional court, inter-alia, erred in not appreciating the fact that the documents which were submitted by respondent no. 2 for the purpose of mutation were ex-facie forged and the FSL report had clearly indicated that the same were not signed by the petitioners. 
It is contended that respondent no. 2 had applied for mutation of the property left behind by the deceased father exclusive in his name and induced the corporation into mutating the same in his name to the exclusion of the petitioner and other legal heirs and it constituted an offence punishable under Section 420 of the IPC. 
Learned counsel for the petitioner, inter-alia, contends that no offence of cheating or forgery is made out against the petitioner. He submits that the revisional court had rightly set aside the order of the trial court holding that no complaint had been made by the municipal corporation which is alleged to have been induced for mutating the property in favour of the respondent no. 2. Further it is contended that prosecution has failed to establish that it was respondent no. 2 who had forged or used any forged document. Further it is contended that no benefit has been obtained by respondent no. 2 as mutation does not CRL.REV.P 274/2015  of 24 create any title but only determines as to who is liable to pay property tax. He further contends that the order on mutation was with regard to payment of tax and does not create any right in favour of respondent no. 2. 
Learned counsel for the respondent relies on the judgment of the Supreme Court in „Mohammed Ibrahim &amp; Ors. Vs. State of Bihar &amp; Anr.‟ (2009) 3 SCC (Crl.) 929 to contend that the condition precedent for an offence under Sections 467 and 471 IPC is forgery. He submits that none of the ingredients of the said Sections are prima facie satisfied and as no such charge could have been framed against the said respondent under Section 467 and 471 IPC. 
Learned counsel for the respondent further relies on the decision of the Supreme Court in &#39;Jibrial Diwan Vs. State of Maharashtra‟ AIR 1997 SC 3424; to contend that where there is no wrongful gain, intention cannot be said to be dishonest or fraudulent and as such basic ingredients of the charge under Section 471 IPC is not satisfied. 
Learned Addl. PP supports the contention of the learned counsel for the petitioner and submits that the trial court had correctly framed the charge and the Revisional Court committed an error. 
Learned Addl. PP submits that the certain documents had been sent to Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) for examination and the CRL.REV.P 274/2015  of 24 report was received from the FSL after the impugned order was passed and as such the same could not be brought to the notice of the revisional court. Learned Addl. PP submits that the FSL report confirms that the signatures of some of the legal heirs on the no objection submitted for the purposes of mutation did not match and the signatures of respondent no. 2/accused on the said document matches. 
The original documents submitted for mutation have been produced by learned Addl. PP and also some of the original documents are part of the trial court record, digital copy of the same have been placed on record. 
Petitioner as well as respondent no. 2 are brother and sister, all being legal heirs of one late Shri Jorawar Singh Yadav. Late Shri Jorawar Singh Yadav was recorded owner of property bearing No. 9988-C, Sarai Rohilla, situated in Delhi. He was married to Smt. Rampiari Yadav. Out of their wedlock, 7 (seven) children were born, i.e., four sons and three daughters. The petitioner/complainant is one of the daughters. Respondent no. 2/accused is one of the sons. 
The case of the petitioner is that respondent no. 2 had forged and fabricated the documents for the purposes of mutation. The application submitted by respondent no. 2 for the purpose of mutation is dated 13.10.1995. In the application for mutation, signed by respondent no. 2, it is mentioned that Indemnity Bond duly attested, CRL.REV.P 274/2015  of 24 affidavit duly attested and no objection from legal heirs and copy of death certificate of late Shri Jorawar Singh Yadav were submitted for the purpose of mutation. The original Indemnity Bond is attested on 
01.1995. The affidavit is attested on 13.01.1995 as also the purported signatures of the legal heirs and the mother of the parties. 
The affidavit is notarized by one Shri Sunil Pandit and the Indemnity Bond is notarized by Shri G.D. Dahiya on 13.01.1995. Learned Addl. PP submits out that both the Notary Public - Shri Sunil Pandit and Shri G.D. Dahiya in their statements given to the Investigating Officer have denied their signatures and attestation of the said documents and stated that the attestation, etc. do not belong to them. Consequent to the application for mutation, the property was mutated by Municipal Corporation of Delhi on 16.01.1995. 
Trial Court after perusing the record on 17.11.2014 was satisfied that there was prima facie sufficient material against the accused for framing of charge under Section 420 / 467 / 468 of the IPC and accordingly framed charge. 
The Revisional Court in the revision petition filed by the respondent no. 2, by the impugned order dated 13.03.2015 held that no charge under Section 420 IPC could be framed as no complaint had been made by Municipal Corporation of Delhi as the alleged inducement was to MCD officials for mutating the property. CRL.REV.P 274/2015  of 24 
With regard to the charge framed under Section 467 IPC, the Revisional Court was of the view that as the document which is alleged to have been forged was not a valuable security or a Will or part of the record as defined under Section of 30 of the IPC , no charge could be framed. Further the Revisional Court was of the view that the mutation letter does not create any right and it is only meant for the purpose of property tax and as such Section 467 IPC was not attracted. 
The Revisional Court was of the view that since no charge of cheating was made out, so accused cannot be charged with Section 468 IPC. With regard to the offence under Section 471 IPC i.e. using as genuine a forged document, Revisional Court was of the view that no charge of forgery could be framed against accused under Section 471 IPC. 
The documents produced by the Investigating Officer as also the documents filed along with the chargesheet clearly do not warrant an order, as has been passed by the Revisional Court rather show a complete non application of mind by the Revisional Court. 
The documents ex facie show tampering and alterations. It would be expedient to refer to the documents accordingly for a better appreciation images of the documents and of the alternations, which are apparent to the naked eye are extracted herein below and encircled in red: CRL.REV.P 274/2015  of 24 Figure # 1 CRL.REV.P 274/2015  of 24 Figure #2 CRL.REV.P 274/2015  of 24 Figure #3 CRL.REV.P 274/2015  of 24 Figure #4 CRL.REV.P 274/2015  of 24 Figure #5 CRL.REV.P 274/2015  of 24 Figure #6 CRL.REV.P 274/2015  of 24 Figure #7 CRL.REV.P 274/2015  of 24 Figure # 8 CRL.REV.P 274/2015  of 24 Figure # 9 CRL.REV.P 274/2015  of 24 Figure # 10 CRL.REV.P 274/2015  of 24 
Original of documents extracted as Figure # 1, 2 and 3 were filed along with the charge sheet and copies of documents extracted as Figure # 4 to 10 were filed along with the Charge sheet as originals had been sent to FSL for examination. The originals of documents at S. No. 4 to 10, were received from the FSL after the revisional court had already discharged respondent no. 2. 
When these documents are examined, they ex facie show the original name of the executant in the documents has been rubbed out and name of respondent no. 2 has been written thereon. Prima facie the documents show that the documents were created in the name of Smt. Ram Pyari Yadav, wife of Zorawar Singh Yadav, mother of the parties and her name has been rubbed out and the name M.S. Yadav son of Zorawar Singh Yadav (respondent no. 2) has been typed over the erased portion. 
There are two FSL reports; one dated 08.10.2012 which opines that the signatures of Sh. Gian Prakash Yadav and Sh. Brahm Prakash Yadav and Smt. Kanta Yadav do not match, another FSL report dated 
07.2015 opines that the signatures of M.S. Yadav matches on some of the documents. 
Further it may be seen from the application for mutation dated 
01.1995, that the name of the original applicant has been erased and name of Mahender Singh Yadav (respondent No. 2) typed CRL.REV.P 274/2015  of 24 thereon. The typewriter and type font used are different. The application appears to have been submitted on 16.01.1995, which is evident from the fact that there is a reference of deposit of fee of Rs. 50/- on the said date. The mutation letter has also been issued on 
01.1995 i.e. on the same date when the application was made. Perusal of all the documents as noticed above, clearly show that the name of Smt. Ram Pyari Yadav has been erased and name of respondent no. 2 has been added. 
It is apparent that the documents were tampered with for the purposes of obtaining mutation of the subject property in favour of respondent no. 2. The municipal corporation also mutated the property in favour of respondent no. 2. The expediency with which the municipal corporation has mutated the property (i.e. the same day on which an application is moved) speaks volumes. 
 Section 30 of the IPC reads as under: 
&#34;Valuable security&#34;.--The words &#34;valuable security&#34; denote a document which is, or purports to be, a document whereby any legal right is created, extended, transferred, restricted, extinguished or released, or where by any person acknowledges that he lies under legal liability, or has not a certain legal right. 
 Section 30 defines valuable security, inter-alia, to include any document whereby any legal right is created. 
The argument of learned counsel for respondent No. 2 that CRL.REV.P 274/2015  of 24 mutation does not create any title in property and is only determinative of who pays the property tax does not further the case of Respondent No. 2. 
No doubt mutation does not create any title in favour of any individual, however, it does create some legal rights as to who is to represent the property before the municipal authorities. It may not be a document which can be used against the actual owner of the property, however, a mutation does create certain rights in favour of the individual, in whose favour mutation has been carried out, to represent and deal with the property tax matters. 
Though mutation does not create any title in favour of an individual, however, a lay person who is not well versed with legal procedure or legal rights would get an impression that substantial valuable rights are conveyed by mutation. Further, authorities would deal with person in whose favour mutation has been carried out in all matters relating to the said property. 
 Section 415 IPC defines cheating. Section 415 IPC reads as under: 
Cheating.--Whoever, by deceiving any person, fraudulently or dishonestly induces the person so deceived to deliver any property to any person, or to consent that any person shall retain any property, or intentionally induces the person so deceived to do or omit to do anything which he would not do or omit if he were not so deceived, and which act or omission causes or is CRL.REV.P 274/2015  of 24 likely to cause damage or harm to that person in body, mind, reputation or property, is said to &#34;cheat&#34;. 
 Section 415 IPC defines cheating, inter-alia, to include where a person is deceived into doing something which he would not otherwise have done. In the instant case, respondent no. 2 is alleged to have forged and fabricated documents and thereby induced municipal corporation into carrying out a mutation in his favour to the exclusion of other legal heirs. 
 Section 420 makes cheating as an offence where a person is induced into delivering a property or making, altering or destroying whole or any part of a valuable security, or anything which is signed or sealed, and which is capable of being converted into a valuable security. Prima facie in this case, it appears that the respondent no. 2 induced the Municipal Corporation into carrying out in his favour and handing over the document of mutation, which could be then used to enforce a legal right. 
The documents extracted hereinabove, prima facie show that the documents are forged and fabricated, in as much as, they have been altered. 
 Section 463 IPC defines forgery and making any false documents, inter-alia, with intent to causing damage or injury to any person or to support any claim or title, or to cause any person to part CRL.REV.P 274/2015  of 24 with property, etc. 
 Section 467 IPC, inter-alia, makes forging of a document, which purports to be a valuable security, punishable. Section 30 defines security to include a document which creates a legal right. A document of mutation, as noticed above, does create legal rights in favour of the person in whose favour mutation has been carried out. Similarly, Section 468 IPC makes forgery of a document for the purposes of cheating punishable. 
Clearly, the Revisional Court fell in error in holding the petitioner was not liable to be tried under Section 467 IPC and no charge was prima facie made out against him. 
In so far as Section 471 IPC is concerned, it is the case of the prosecution that respondent no. 2 had submitted these documents for the purpose of mutation. Signatures of respondent no. 2 on the said documents have matched as per the FSL report. As regards to the signatures of the other signatories, report qua some is that they do not match and for others there is no confirmation. Said documents have been submitted for the purpose of obtaining mutation bearing the Signatures of respondent no. 2. This prima facie shows that it is respondent no. 2 who has used the said documents as genuine when he knew said documents to be not genuine documents. 
Further the two Notary Publics who are alleged to have CRL.REV.P 274/2015  of 24 notarized the documents have denied having signed the same and stated that it is not their signatures. Clearly the impugned order of the revisional court that prima facie no case is made out is unsustainable. 
Apparently, the Revisional Court did not even examine the documents, else the tampering would not have gone unnoticed. Further, the Revisional Court did not even await the report of the FSL, prior to passing the impugned order discharging respondent No. 2. 
The Judgments in the cases of Mohammed Ibrahim &amp; Ors. Vs. State of Bihar &amp; Anr.‟ (supra) and &#39;Jibrial Diwan Vs. State of Maharashtra‟ (supra) relied upon by learned counsel for respondent No. 2 to contend that the condition precedent for an offence under Sections 467 and 471 IPC is forgery, in the facts of the present case and the documents extracted hereinabove are not applicable. The reliance is misplaced. 
As noticed above, the documents ex-facie to the naked eye, appear to be tampered with and the FSL report supports the view that the same are not signed at least by the some of the purported executants of the documents. 
On perusal of the record, I am satisfied that prima facie case is made out against respondent no. 2 for the purpose of framing charges under Section 420 / 467 / 468 / 471 IPC. CRL.REV.P 274/2015  of 24 
In view of the above, the impugned order dated 13.03.2015 is set aside. Sequitur is that the order passed by the trial court dated 
11.2014 and the consequent charge framed against Respondent No. 2 is revived. 
Since I have examined the case of the petitioner on merits and found the same sustainable, the question of law raised by the learned counsel for the petitioner that the impugned order of the revisional court is liable to be set aside as there is non compliance of Section 401(2) is not gone into and is left open. 
It is clarified that this Court has expressed only a prima facie view on the document and anything stated herein shall not influence the trial court at the stage of final hearing. 
It is noticed that the FSL has not given any opinion with regard to the overwriting or erasing of name on the said document as has been noticed by this Court. Learned Addl. PP has informed that no such opinion has been rendered by FSL as a query to the said effect was not made. Learned Addl. PP further submits that the Investigating Officer shall be sending the said documents to FSL to express its opinion with regard to the alleged erasing and over-writing on the said documents. 
List the matter before the trial court for further proceedings on 07.03.2019. CRL.REV.P 274/2015  of 24 
Original trial court record as well as lower court record be transmitted back to the trial court and the lower court, if not already done. 
Order dasti under signatures of the Court Master. FEBRUARY 19, 2019 SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J &#39;rs&#39; CRL.REV.P 274/2015  of 24 Kaushal Kishore vs State Nct Of Delhi on 28 May, 2019

Petitioner impugns order on charge dated 27.10.2017 whereby charge has been framed against the petitioner under Section 498A Indian Penal Code (IPC for short). 
Mr. Salve, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioner contends that Charge Sheet was filed both under Section 306 and Section 498A IPC, however, the Trial Court found insufficient material to proceed under Section 306 IPC. He submits that cruelty under Section 498A IPC is to be of such a nature which is likely to drive a woman to commit suicide or to cause grave injury etc. and as the Trial Court found insufficient material CRL.REV.P. 129/2018  of 8 to proceed under section 306 IPC, on the same analogy, there was insufficient material to even frame a charge under Section 498A of IPC. 
Deceased married the petitioner on 27.09.2009. On 28.09.2010, the deceased committed suicide. FIR was registered on the complaint of the mother of the deceased, which complaint was lodged on 29.09.2010. 
The allegations in the FIR are that the married life of her daughter with the petitioner was not good from day one. It is alleged that on the first day itself, petitioner had informed the deceased that his brother had four children and she had to take care of them. It is contended that the deceased initially did not inform her family about any problem but after six months, she started informing them that her husband had been mentally torturing her. 
It is alleged that once at 1 AM in the night he had turned her out of the house and after a lot of requests, he permitted her to come back. It is alleged that on every occasion petitioner used to fight with her with regard to the children of his brother and used to blame her for any problem that they faced. 
In her supplementary statement, recorded on 10.11.2010, the mother of the deceased stated that she was told by her daughter that her husband i.e. the petitioner did not want any child as he had stated that his brother had four children and she was to take care of them. It is contended that he never used to give her any money for expenditure. It is alleged that twice she became pregnant but both times she got the child aborted. Further, it is alleged that they had travelled to London where despite protest by the deceased, petitioner made her stay at her relative&#39;s house. CRL.REV.P. 129/2018  of 8 
It is alleged that the deceased informed the mother that the petitioner wanted that all personal expenses of the deceased should be incurred by her brother and her brother should give money for purchasing a house in Gurgaon. It is alleged that she was being continuously mentally and physically tortured and beaten and was being pressurised to talk to her brother about getting money for purchasing a plot. 
Statements of the brothers of the deceased Neeraj Mediratta and Anuj Mediratta were also recorded. They also stated that their sister - the deceased was being harassed by the petitioner and one day he kept on shouting and fighting with her and at about 1 AM in the night he dragged her out of the house and asked her to go and get money from her mother and brothers and when she was asked about the reason for such behaviour, she stated that it was on account of the children of the brother of the petitioner. It is alleged that he used to continuously abuse her and had even made her apologize to him in writing several times and was looking for excuses to scold her and fight with her. It is alleged that when she had conceived, the petitioner physically and mentally started harassing her and would not get her medical check-up done, on account of which, she had miscarriage. They have contended that she committed suicide on account of the ill behaviour of the petitioner. 
The deceased committed suicide on 28.09.2010, the very next day of her first marriage anniversary. As per the prosecution, a notebook was recovered from the spot and in the notebook, there was a suicide note allegedly written by the deceased. The suicide note has been verified by the Forensic Science Laboratory written in the handwriting of the deceased. In the suicide note, which is in Hindi, she has written as under:- CRL.REV.P. 129/2018  of 8 &#34;Dear All, I am tired of this life. Everyone loves me. My two brothers and mother and my father in law and husband. Kaushalji loves me a lot and takes care of my happiness. But I do not want to live now, I am taking this step only for this reason. I am responsible for my death. All of you forgive me. Yours Swati 28/9/2010&#34; 
By the impugned order, Trial Court has framed charges under Section 498A IPC and has discharged the accused for the offence under Section 306 IPC. 
The Trial Court was of the view that the suicide note exonerated the petitioner and stated that the deceased was taking the step voluntarily. The Trial Court was of the view that since the suicide note exonerated the petitioner, there was insufficient material against him insofar as the offence under Section 306 IPC was concerned. 
However, the Trial Court found that there were specific allegations made in the statements of Smt. Kamlesh (mother of the deceased) and Sh. Neeraj Mediratta and Sh. Anuj Mediratta (brothers of the deceased) that the petitioner had maltreated the deceased and committed physical and mental cruelty. 
 Sections 306 IPC reads as under:- CRL.REV.P. 129/2018  of 8 &#34;306. Abetment of suicide.--If any person commits suicide, whoever abets the commission of such suicide, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.&#34; 
 Sections 498A IPC reads as under: &#34;498A. Husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty.--Whoever, being the husband or the relative of the husband of a woman, subjects such woman to cruelty shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine. Explanation.--For the purpose of this section, &#34;cruelty&#34; means-- (a) any wilful conduct which is of such a nature as is likely to drive the woman to commit suicide or to cause grave injury or danger to life, limb or health (whether mental or physical) of the woman; or (b) harassment of the woman where such harassment is with a view to coercing her or any person related to her to meet any unlawful demand for any property or valuable security or is on account of failure by her or any person related to her to meet such demand.&#34; 
 In Girdhar Shankar Tawade v. State of Maharashtra , (2002) 5 SCC 177 the Supreme Court has held as under &#34;17. As regards the core issue as to whether charges under Sections 306 and 498-A of the Indian Penal Code are independent of each other and acquittal of one does not lead to acquittal on the other, as noticed earlier, there appears to be a long catena of cases in affirmation thereto and as such further dilation is not necessary neither are we inclined to do so, but in order to justify a conviction under the later provision there must be available on record some material and cogent evidence.************* CRL.REV.P. 129/2018  of 8 
************ Acquittal of a charge under Section 306 , as noticed hereinbefore, though not by itself a ground for acquittal under Section 498-A , but some cogent evidence is required to bring home the charge of Section 498-A as well, without which the charge cannot be said to be maintained. ********&#34; 
In Girdhar Shankar Tawade (supra), the Supreme Court has clearly laid down that charges under Section 306 and 498A IPC are independent of each other and acquittal of one does not lead to acquittal of the other. Acquittal of a charge under Section 306 does not by itself become a ground for acquittal under Section 498A IPC but some cogent evidence is required to bring home the charge of Section 498A as well, without which the charge cannot be said to be maintained. 
 In Ramesh Kumar v. State of Chhattisgarh , (2001) 9 SCC 618 the Supreme Court held as under: &#34;22. Sections 498-A and 306 IPC are independent and constitute different offences. Though, depending on the facts and circumstances of an individual case, subjecting a woman to cruelty may amount to an offence under Section 498-A and may also, if a course of conduct amounting to cruelty is established leaving no other option for the woman except to commit suicide, amount to abetment to commit suicide. However, merely because an accused has been held liable to be punished under Section 498-A IPC it does not follow that on the same evidence he must also and necessarily be held guilty of having abetted the commission of suicide by the woman concerned. *********&#34; 
 In Ramesh Kumar vs. State of Chhattisgarh , the Supreme Court has further held that Sections 498A and Section 306 IPC are independent and constitute different offences. Depending on the facts and circumstances of an individual case, subjecting a woman to cruelty may amount to an CRL.REV.P. 129/2018  of 8 offence under Section 498A and may also if a course of conduct amounting to cruelty is established leaving no other option for the woman except to commit suicide, amount to abetment to commit suicide. 
In the present case, Trial Court found insufficient material to charge the petitioner for an offence under Section 306 IPC but after examination of the material on record was of the view that there is sufficient material to frame a charge under section 498A IPC. 
As noticed above, an acquittal or discharge under Section 306 IPC would not ipso facto amount to an acquittal or discharge under Section 498A IPC. Ingredients of both the Sections are different. Though, there may be an overlap with regard to cruelty being meted out to the deceased in both the Sections, however, the degree of cruelty to constitute abetment under Section 306 IPC would be of higher than the degree of harassment and cruelty to constitute an offence under Section 498A IPC. It cannot be held that because petitioner has been discharged of an offence under Section 306 IPC, it would automatically lead to a discharge of the offence under Section 498A IPC. 
In the present case, there is sufficient material on record in the form of the statements of the mother as well as the brothers of the deceased, alleging both physical and mental harassment by the petitioner of the deceased. There are specific allegations that petitioner had maltreated the deceased and committed physical and mental cruelty on her and even made demands for money to purchase a plot. In my view there is sufficient material on record to give rise to grave suspicion against the petitioner for framing a charge under Section 498A IPC. CRL.REV.P. 129/2018  of 8 
Further submissions made on behalf of the petitioner, rendering explanations for the allegations levelled by the family of the deceased and attempting to establish that the allegations are false and controverted by other facts, are pleas to be raised in defence by the petitioner which would be appropriately considered by the Trial Court. 
At the stage of framing of charge, the Court is not to look into the probable explanation or defence of the accused but is to examine the material collected by the prosecution at the time of investigation. Explanations with regard to the allegations or the statements of neighbours with regard to their observation of the behaviour of the petitioner with the deceased, relied on by learned counsel for the petitioner, is material which would be proved by the petitioner by leading his defence evidence. 
On perusal of the record, I am satisfied that there is no infirmity in the view taken by the Trial Court in framing a charge against the petitioner for an offence under Section 498A IPC. 
In view of the above, I find no infirmity in the impugned order. The petition is, accordingly, dismissed. 
Order Dasti under signatures of the Court Master. SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J MAY 28, 2019 HJ/St CRL.REV.P. 129/2018  of 8 Rohit Singh @ Rinku vs State (Govt. Of Nct Of Delhi) on 12 February, 2019

Petitioner seeks regular bail in FIR No. 61/2018 under Sections 379 / 394 / 397 / 411 / 506 / 120-B of the IPC, Police Station Jama Masjid. 
The subject FIR has been registered on the complaint of an employee of Sanjay Sales Agency. 
As per the complainant, he was instructed by the owner to transport goods and money in a van from their shop at Fateh Puri, Delhi to the factory at Patparganj, Delhi. It is alleged that the complainant had put four boxes in the back of the van containing goods and Rs. 15 lakhs in cash. As per the complainant after putting BAIL APPLN. 180/2019  of 4 the goods in the back of the van he bolted the lock with a nail and sat in the front seat of the van with driver. En-route to the factory, it is alleged that their vehicle hit another vehicle bearing No. DL 1LCR 
It is alleged that three boys were travelling in the said van and they started fighting with the driver of the complainant. After the fight was over, they left the spot. Subsequently, someone pointed out that back door of the van was open. When they checked, it transpired that goods and cash were missing from the van. 
Chargesheet has been filed. As per the prosecution, the case of the prosecution is that Investigating Officer checked the CCTV footage of the locality and found some boys doing recce of the area. Based on the same, they were apprehended. The petitioner is one of them who were apprehended. It is further alleged that cash of Rs. 50,000/- has been recovered from the petitioner. 
Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner has been falsely implicated. He submits that the entire story as mentioned in the FIR has changed in the subsequent statement given to the police. The entire narration of incident has changed and in the supplementary statement it is alleged that there was no theft but there was robbery of Rs. 40 lakhs that also at gunpoint. 
Learned counsel submits that no gun has been recovered but a toy gun is alleged to have been recovered. It is submitted that the complainant has stated that in the heat of the moment he mistakenly BAIL APPLN. 180/2019  of 4 stated that cash of 15 lakhs was stolen and omitted to mention that he was robbed of Rs. 40 lakhs at gunpoint. Further learned counsel submits that number of the vehicle which was allegedly used in the offence has changed from DL 1LCR 4612 in the FIT to DL 1LCR 4212 in the chargesheet. 
Learned counsel for the petitioner further submits that there is no material to connect the petitioner with the subject offence and the prosecution has not been able to establish as to how from CCTV footage the Investigating officer could zero down to the petitioner as the one who was doing recce of the area. 
Further it is contended that the alleged recovery of cash from the petitioner is of no consequence, in as much as, neither the number of notes were noted nor there was any marked currency and as such the amount recovered from the petitioner cannot be connected to the subject offence. 
Status report has been filed and the same is taken on record. The petitioner has been in custody since 29.06.2018. Investigation is complete and chargesheet has already been filed. 
Without commenting on the merits of the case and keeping in view the totality of the facts and circumstances of the case and the fact that the petitioner has been in custody for over seven months, I am of the view that petitioner has made out a case for grant of regular bail. BAIL APPLN. 180/2019  of 4 
Accordingly, on petitioner furnishing a bail bond in the sum of Rs. 25,000/- with one surety of the like amount to the satisfaction of the Trial Court, petitioner shall be released on bail, if not required in any other case. Petitioner shall not do anything which may prejudice either the trial or the prosecution witnesses. 
Petition is allowed in the above terms. 
Order Dasti under signatures of the Court Master. SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J FEBRUARY 12, 2019 &#39;rs&#39; BAIL APPLN. 180/2019  of 4 Dr. Ravi Prakash Verma vs State on 25 November, 2019

Allowed, subject to all just exceptions. 
This application is, accordingly, disposed of. BAIL APPLN. 2916/2019 
Vide the present petition, the petitioner/ accused seek direction thereby to grant bail in FIR No. 281/2019 dated 12.10.2019 registered at Police Station - Safdarjung Enclave, New Delhi for the offences punishable under Section 328 / 376 / 506 IPC. 
Case of the prosecution is that the complainant has studied B. Pharma and in the month of December, 2017, while she was working with Walter BAIL APPLN. 2916/2019  of 5 Bushnell Company, she was sent to Safdarjung Hospital on behalf of the company as she was the Field Sales Manager. Her job was to meet the Doctors and tell them about the medicines of her company to promote drug study in the hospitals. 
She is married to Ravi and their marriage took place on 3rd November, 
In the year 2017, while she was working in Safdarjung Hospital, she used to have professional meetings with many doctors during the job. During that time, she also met Dr. Ravi Prakash Verma (General Surgeon) (the petitioner herein). Initially, she used to have a routine meeting with Dr. Ravi Prakash Verma and his behaviour towards her was also right. Due to the nature of her work i.e. marketing, mobile numbers were exchanged between them. She used to talk to him about work through text messages on the phone, then gradually, they became closer. When the petitioner offered her for coffee, she felt a bit strange and disclosed this to her husband, to which her husband explained that this goes on in business meetings. So, on his (Dr. Ravi&#39;s) insisting again, she went to Green Park, CCD for coffee with him. They had a meeting after this as well and Dr. Ravi became friendly with her. She was advised by the petitioner that she should study further and try for a job in government and that he would help her with her BAIL APPLN. 2916/2019  of 5 preparations. Till then, the intention of the petitioner was not wrong towards her as he used to call her to his house as well and his wife and brother also knew about her profile. She continued to meet the petitioner for a long time and families of both of them used to go for lunch and dinner together. Meanwhile, the petitioner told her that he too had to do MCH Course, so he was taking a room on rent in Arjun Nagar because it was difficult to study with the family at home and he asked her to come to his rented room for her studies. She used to go to Arjun Nagar on the petitioner&#39;s rented accommodation to study 2-3 days a week. One day, the petitioner offered her a cold drink with sedative mixed in it and thereafter, he committed rape. 
Initially, she did not disclose this fact to anyone, however, thereafter in the month of October, she made complaint which culminated into the FIR herein. 
Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner submits that the prosecutrix used to meet him and had consensual sexual relations with him, however, when this fact came to the knowledge of her husband, he insisted her to make a complaint and accordingly, the petitioner has falsely been implicated in the present case. BAIL APPLN. 2916/2019  of 5 
It is further submitted that regarding the allegations of the obscene photo taken by the petitioner of the prosecutrix, he had already handed over the cell phone to the IO, who thereafter, sent the cell for examination to the FSL. The petitioner is in judicial custody since 13.10.2019. The charge sheet is yet to be filed and trial will take substantial time, therefore, there is no purpose to keep the petitioner behind the bars. 
On the other hand, learned APP appearing for the State submits that there are serious allegations against the petitioner. He has breached the trust of the prosecutrix and by giving sedative in cold drink to her, committed rape upon her. The complaint has been supported by the prosecutrix in her statement recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C. There is apprehension that the petitioner may influence the witnesses as the investigation is at the advanced stage. Thus, the present petition deserves to be dismissed. 
Fact remains that the petitioner had a separate room on rent, despite staying with his family in a different accommodation. The petitioner is a Senior Resident at the Safdarjung Hospital. The prosecutrix was the Field Sales Manager of her Pharmaceutical Company and for promotion of the medicines of her company, she used to meet the doctors, who could prescribe medicines of a particular company at hospitals and to patients. BAIL APPLN. 2916/2019  of 5 Even when the petitioner offered her to have coffee, she felt awkward, whereas offering coffee or cold drink is not a sin, which would result in awkwardness, when two persons are meeting at residence, outside or some other place. However, without commenting on the merits or demerits of the case, keeping in view the facts that no further interrogation is required from the petitioner and the fact that he is in custody since 13.10.2019 and the cell phone of the petitioner has already been seized by the IO and sent for FSL, thus, the apprehension of influencing the witnesses is also carved out. This Court is of the considered view that the present case is fit for bail. Therefore, the applicant shall be released on bail on his furnishing personal bond in the sum of ₹25,000/- with one surety of the like amount to the satisfaction of the Trial Court. 
The bail application accordingly stands disposed of. 
Order dasti under the signatures of Court Master.Ccl Lk @ Lkp vs State on 9 July, 2019

The present petition raises important question of law. 
The question of law that arises is as to whether under Section 19 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act , 2015 (hereinafter referred to as the JJ Act), once a preliminary assessment report has been received from the Juvenile Justice Board under Section 15 of the JJ Act, the Children&#39;s Court is obliged to accept the report and proceed further for trial of the child as an adult or has to take a decision as to whether there is need for trial of the child as an adult or not as stipulated under Section 19(1)(i) and Section 19(1)(ii) of the JJ Act. CRL.REV.P. 985/2018  of 15 
The contention of the learned counsel for the petitioner is that it is mandatory for the Children&#39;s Court under Section 19(1) of the Act, on receipt of preliminary assessment report, to take a decision as to which of the two courses provided by Section 19(1) i.e. 19(1)(i) 19(1)(ii) of the Act is to be adopted. 
Subject FIR No. 310/2016 has been registered under Section 342 / 376 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC for short) and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act 2012 , Police Station Khayala, alleging that the petitioner had tied the hands of the victim and gagged her mouth with a piece of cloth and thereafter committed penetrative sexual assault upon her. 
On 15.07.2016, the petitioner was arrested. On 31.08.2016 final report was filed before the Juvenile Justice Board. 
By order dated 16.11.2016, the Juvenile Justice Board concluded the preliminary assessment in terms of Section 15 of the JJ Act and held that the petitioner was required to face trial as an adult and therefore the case was transferred to the concerned Children&#39;s Court for trial. 
By order dated 04.09.2018, impugned herein, the Children&#39;s Court framed charges against the petitioner under Section 342/376 IPF and Section 6 POCSO. 
Subject petition has been filed contending that the Children&#39;s CRL.REV.P. 985/2018  of 15 Court has failed to comply with the mandatory requirement of Section 19(1) of the JJ Act of deciding as to whether there was need to trial the petitioner as an adult or not and as such the impugned order on charge and the consequent proceedings held thereafter are vitiated and liable to be quashed.. 
Section 15 of the JJ Act reads as under: &#34;15. (1) In case of a heinous offence alleged to have been committed by a child, who has completed or is above the age of sixteen years, the Board shall conduct a preliminary assessment with regard to his mental and physical capacity to commit such offence, ability to understand the consequences of the offence and the circumstances in which he allegedly committed the offence, and may pass an order in accordance with the provisions of subsection (3) of section 18: Provided that for such an assessment, the Board may take the assistance of experienced psychologists or psycho-social workers or other experts. Explanation.-- For the purposes of this section, it is clarified that preliminary assessment is not a trial, but is to assess the capacity of such child to commit and understand the consequences of the alleged offence. (2) Where the Board is satisfied on preliminary assessment that the matter should be disposed of by the Board, then the Board shall follow the procedure, as far as may be, for trial in summons case under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973: Provided that the order of the Board to dispose of the matter shall be appealable under sub-section (2) of section 101: CRL.REV.P. 985/2018  of 15 Provided further that the assessment under this section shall be completed within the period specified in section 
&#34; 
In terms of Section 15 of the JJ Act in the case of a heinous offence alleged to have been committed by a child, who has completed or is above the age of 16, the Board is obliged to conduct a preliminary assessment with regard to his mental and physical capacity to commit such offence, his ability to understand the consequences of the offence and the circumstances in which he allegedly committed the offence and thereafter passed an order in accordance with Section 18(3) of the JJ Act. 
Section 18(3) of the JJ Act inter alia reads as under: &#34;Section 18(3) (1) ***** ***** ***** (2) ***** ***** ***** (3) Where the Board after preliminary assessment under section 15 passes an order that there is a need for trial of the said child as an adult, then the Board may order transfer of the trial of the case to the Children&#39;s Court having jurisdiction to try such offences.&#34; 
In terms of Section 18(3) of the Act where the Board after the preliminary assessment under Section 15 forms an opinion that there is need for trial of the said child as an adult, the Board is empowered to transfer the trial of the case to the Children&#39;s Court having jurisdiction to try such offences. CRL.REV.P. 985/2018  of 15 
Section 19 of the JJ Act enumerates the powers of the Children&#39;s Court. Since Section 19 (1) of the JJ Act is in issue with the present case, only Section 19(1) of the JJ Act is extracted herein after. It reads as under: - &#34;19. (1) After the receipt of preliminary assessment from the Board under section 15, the Children´s Court may decide that-- (i) there is a need for trial of the child as an adult as per the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 and pass appropriate orders after trial subject to the provisions of this section and section 21, considering the special needs of the child, the tenets of fair trial and maintaining a child friendly atmosphere; (ii) there is no need for trial of the child as an adult and may conduct an inquiry as a Board and pass appropriate orders in accordance with the provisions of section 18. (2) ***** ***** *****&#34; 
In terms Section 19(1) of the Act after receipt of the preliminary assessment from the Board under Section 15 , Children&#39;s Court is to decide; (1) as to whether there is need for trial of the child as an adult as per the provisions of Cr. P.C. and/or (2) there is no need for the trial of the child as an adult, in which case, it shall conduct an inquiry as a Board and to pass orders in accordance with Section 18 of the Act. 
The question that arises for consideration is as to whether the provisions of Section 19 are mandatory or is the Children Court CRL.REV.P. 985/2018  of 15 merely to follow the recommendations of the Board, made under Section 15 of the Act read with Section 18(3) of the Act? 
The expression used in Section 19(1) is &#39;may decide&#39;. The expression &#39;may&#39; used in section 19 does not give an option to the Children&#39;s Court to decide or not to decide in terms of section 19 , but the expression &#39;may decide&#39; is an option to the Children&#39;s Court to chose between option (1) and option (2) i.e. as to whether there is need for trial of the child as an adult or there is no need for trial of the child as an adult. 
This also becomes clear when Rule 13 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Model Rules, 2016 (framed by the Central Government in exercise of powers conferred by provision of sub-Section (1) of Section 110 of the Act) (hereinafter referred to as the Rules) are examined. 
Rule 13 of the Rules reads as under:- &#34;13. Procedure in relation to Children&#39;s Court and Monitoring Authorities.- (1) Upon receipt of preliminary assessment from the Board the Children&#39;s Court may decide whether there is need for trial of the child as an adult or as a child and pass appropriate orders. (2) Where an appeal has been filed under sub-section (1) of section 101 of the Act against the order of the Board declaring the age of the child, the Children&#39;s Court shall first decide the said appeal. CRL.REV.P. 985/2018  of 15 (3) Where an appeal has been filed under sub-section (2) of section 101 of the Act against the finding of the preliminary assessment done by the Board, the Children&#39;s Court shall first decide the appeal. (4) Where the appeal under sub-section (2) of section 101 of the Act is disposed of by the Children&#39;s Court on a finding that there is no need for trial of the child as an adult, it shall dispose of the same as per section 19 of the Act and these rules. (5) Where the appeal under sub-section (2) of section 101 of the Act is disposed of by the Children&#39;s Court on a finding that the child should be tried as an adult the Children&#39;s Court shall call for the file of the case from the Board and dispose of the matter as per the provisions of the Act and these rules. (6) The Children&#39;s Court shall record its reasons while arriving at a conclusion whether the child is to be treated as an adult or as a child. (7) Where the Children&#39;s Court decides that there is no need for trial of the child as an adult, and that it shall decide the matter itself: (i) It may conduct the inquiry as if it were functioning as a Board and dispose of the matter in accordance with the provisions of the Act and these rules. (ii) The Children&#39;s Court, while conducting the inquiry shall follow the procedure for trial in summons case under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. (iii) The proceedings shall be conducted in camera and in a child friendly atmosphere, and there shall be no joint trial of a child alleged to be in conflict CRL.REV.P. 985/2018  of 15 with law, with a person who is not a child. (iv) When witnesses are produced for examination the Children&#39;s Court shall ensure that the inquiry is not conducted in the spirit of strict adversarial proceedings and it shall use the powers conferred by section 165 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872). (v) While examining a child in conflict with law and recording his statement, the Children&#39;s Court shall address the child in a child-friendly manner in order to put the child at ease and to encourage him to state the facts and circumstances without any fear, not only in respect of the offence which is alleged against the child, but also in respect of the home and social surroundings and the influence to which the child might have been subjected. (vi) The dispositional order passed by the Children&#39;s Court shall necessarily include an individual care plan in Form 7 for the child in conflict with law concerned, prepared by a Probation Officer or Child Welfare Officer or recognized voluntary organisation on the basis of interaction with the child and his family, where possible. (vii) The Children&#39;s Court, in such cases, may pass any orders as provided in sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 18 of the Act. (8) Where the Children&#39;s Court decides that there is a need for trial of the child as an adult: (i) It shall follow the procedure prescribed by the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 of trial by sessions and maintaining a child friendly atmosphere. CRL.REV.P. 985/2018  of 15 (ii) The final order passed by the Children&#39;s Court shall necessarily include an individual care plan for the child as per Form 7 prepared by a Probation Officer or Child Welfare Officer or recognized voluntary organisation on the basis of interaction with the child and his family, where possible. (iii) Where the child has been found to be involved in the offence, the child may be sent to a place of safety till the age of twenty-one years. (iv) While the child remains at the place of safety, there shall be yearly review by the Probation Officer or the District Child Protection Unit or a social worker in Form 13 to evaluate the progress of the child and the reports shall be forwarded to the Children&#39;s Court. (v) The Children&#39;s Court may also direct the child to be produced before it periodically and at least once every three months for the purpose of assessing the progress made by the child and the facilities provided by the institution for the implementation of the individual care plan. (vi) When the child attains the age of twenty-one years and is yet to complete the term of stay, the Children&#39;s Court shall: (a) interact with the child in order to evaluate whether the child has undergone reformative changes and if the child can be a contributing member of the society. (b) take into account the periodic reports of the progress of the child, prepared by the Probation Officer or the District Child Protection Unit or a social worker, if needed CRL.REV.P. 985/2018  of 15 and further direct that institutional mechanism if inadequate be strengthened. (c) After making the evaluation, the Children&#39;s Court may decide to: (ca) release the child forthwith; (cb) release the child on execution of a personal bond with or without sureties for good behaviour; (cc) release the child and issue directions regarding education, vocational training, apprenticeship, employment, counselling and other therapeutic interventions with a view to promoting adaptive and positive behaviour etc.; (cd) release the child and appoint a monitoring authority for the remainder of the prescribed term of stay. The monitoring authority, where appointed shall maintain a Rehabilitation Card for the child in Form 
 (vii) For the purpose of sub-rule (vi) (c) (cd) of this rule: (a) A Probation Officer or Case Worker or Child Welfare Officer or a fit person may be appointed as a monitoring authority. (b) The District Child Protection Unit shall maintain a list of such persons who can be engaged as monitoring authorities which shall be sent to the Children&#39;s Court along with bi-annual updates. CRL.REV.P. 985/2018  of 15 (c) The child shall for the first quarter after release, meet with the monitoring authority on a fortnightly basis or at such intervals as may be directed by the Children&#39;s Court. The monitoring authority shall fix a time and venue for such meetings in consultation with the child. The monitoring authority will forward its observations on the progress of the child on a monthly basis to the Children&#39;s Court. (d) At the end of the first quarter the monitoring authority shall make recommendations regarding the further follow up procedure required for the child. (e) Where the child, after release is found to be indulging in criminal activities or associating with people with criminal antecedents, he shall be brought before the Children&#39;s Court for further orders. (f) If it is found that the child no longer requires to be monitored, the monitoring authority shall place the detailed report with recommendations before the Children&#39;s Court which shall issue further directions either terminating the monitoring or for its continuation. (g) After the first quarter, the child shall meet the monitoring authority at such intervals as may be directed by the Children&#39;s Court based on the recommendations made by the monitoring authority at the end of the first quarter and the monitoring authority shall forward its report to the Children&#39;s Court which shall review the same every quarter.&#34; CRL.REV.P. 985/2018  of 15 
Though, once again the expression used in Rule 13(1) is that the Children&#39;s Court may decide, however, Rule (6) uses the expression &#39;shall&#39; and mandates the Children&#39;s Court to record its reasons while arriving at a conclusion whether the child is to be treated as an adult or as a child. 
Rule 13(7) stipulates that in case the Children&#39;s Court decides that there is no need for trial of the child as an adult, then it shall decide the matter itself. It is thereafter to conduct an inquiry as if it was functioning as a Board and follow the procedure for trial in summon cases under Cr. P.C. 
Rule 13(8) stipulates that in case the Children&#39;s Court decides that there is need for trial of the child as an adult, it is to follow the procedure prescribed by Cr. P.C. or trial by Sessions. 
Reading of Rule 13 in conjunction with Section 19 of JJ Act clearly shows that it is obligatory on the part of the Children&#39;s Court to take a decision after receipt of the preliminary assessment report from the Board as to whether there is need for trial of the child as an adult or as a child. Appropriate speaking order recording reasons for arriving at the conclusion is to be passed by the Children&#39;s Court. 
In the present case, once the preliminary assessment report was received from the Board opining that the child should be treated as an adult, record does not reveal any application of mind or an CRL.REV.P. 985/2018  of 15 independent decision taken by the Children&#39;s Court in terms of Section 19 read with Rule 13(1) and 13(6). The Children&#39;s Court has thereafter proceeded on to frame charges by the impugned order. 
Perusal of the record further shows that the testimony of the child victim has already been partly recorded before the trial court. 
No doubt, the Children&#39;s Court has not passed an order under Section 19 , independently taking a decision as to whether the petitioner is to be tried as an adult or as a child, the same in my opinion would not vitiate the proceedings, thereafter undertaken but, would be an irregularity which would be curable. 
The reason for holding so, is that in both eventualities, i.e. trial as an adult and trial as a child, the proceedings have to continue before the Children&#39;s Court. 
In terms of Rule 13 (7) in case the Children&#39;s Court decides that there is no need for trial of the child as an adult, then, it (Children&#39;s Court) has to conduct an inquiry as if it were functioning as a Board and following the procedure for trial of the summon cases. 
In case the Children&#39;s Court decides to try the child as an adult, then, it (Children&#39;s Court) has to conduct the trial following the procedure of trial by Sessions Court. 
In either eventuality, charge/notice which is to be framed on the same set of facts, would not be altered in so far as the offence is CRL.REV.P. 985/2018  of 15 concerned. The only difference is as to the procedure to be followed by the Children&#39;s Court for trial. 
Even the absence of a charge has been held by the Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court in Willie (William) Slanley Versus State of Madhya Pradesh (1955) 2 SCR 1140 to be a curable irregularity unless prejudice is caused. 
In the present case, the Children&#39;s Court has framed charges against the Petitioner deeming it to be a Sessions triable Case. So no prejudice is caused to the Petitioner. 
The Supreme Court in Supdt. and Remembrancer of Legal Affairs v. Anil Kumar Bhunja , (1979) 4 SCC 274 has held that trial of a summons case as a warrants case does not amount to an illegality but is a mere irregularity that does not vitiate trial, unless there is prejudice. 
In the present case, there is no prejudice, even alleged to have been caused to the petitioner. No submission has been made that the procedure followed or proceedings held thereafter have caused any prejudice to the petitioner. 
In view of the above, there is no ground to set aside the impugned order on charge dated 04.09.2018 or any proceedings conducted thereafter. 
However, since the Children&#39;s Court has not passed any order CRL.REV.P. 985/2018  of 15 in terms of Section 19 of the JJ Act read with Rule 13(1) and Rule 13(6) of the Rules, the Children&#39;s Court is directed to pass an order in terms thereof. 
In case the Children&#39;s Court opines that there is no need for trial of the child as an adult; it shall follow the procedure as prescribed under Rule 13(7) and in case it holds that there is need for trial of the child as an adult it shall follow the procedure as prescribed under Rule 13(8). 
In either eventuality, the proceedings that have so far been conducted and the evidence that has already come on record would be saved. 
The petition is, accordingly, disposed of with the above observations, directing the Children&#39;s Court to decide in terms hereof within a period of three months. 
List the matter before the Children&#39;s Court for directions on 
07.2019. 
Order Dasti under signatures of the Court Master. SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J July 09, 2019 &#39;rs&#39; CRL.REV.P. 985/2018  of 15 Shashi Kumar Mahajan &amp; Ors. vs State &amp; Anr. on 14 February, 2019

Petitioners impugn order on charge dated 15.05.2018. Petitioner No.1 is the father-in-law; petitioner No.2 is the mother-in-law and petitioner No.3 is the husband of the complainant/respondent No.2. By the impugned order on charge, charge under Section 354 / 354A / 354C IPC has been framed against the petitioner No.1 (father-in-law). Charge under Section 498A / 34 IPC r/w Section 3 / 4 Dowry Prohibition Act and under Section 323 / 34 IPC has been framed against all the petitioners. 
Learned counsel for the petitioners submits that the basic ingredients of Sections 354 / 354A / 354C / 498A and Section 3 / 4 of Dowry Prohibition Act and Section 323 IPC are not made out against any of the accused. CRL.REV.P. 615/2018  of 10 
Learned counsel for the petitioners contends that there was a delay of one month in making the complaint and initially an allegation was made of petitioner No.1 having committed the offence of rape and subsequently in the 164 Cr.P.C statement recorded before the Magistrate the allegation was diluted from rape to that of Section 354 IPC. This, it is contended, shows that the complaint initially made was false to the knowledge of the complainant and as such Trial Court should not have framed charges. 
It is further contended that prior to giving a statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C to the police based on which an FIR was registered, a DD entry is made in the police station where the complainant had alleged of a domestic fight and there was no allegation of any molestation or rape. Further it is contended that the allegations made by the complainant of demands of dowry and fulfillment of such demand are not substantiated in as much as no evidence has been shown by the complainant of having withdrawn money from any bank account. Further it is contended that in the 164 statement there is no allegation that any amount was paid. 
Learned counsel for the petitioners further contend that the entire investigation was not conducted in a fair manner by the prosecution and it was completely one sided. He further submits that the call detail records obtained by the prosecution of the husband show that the incident which is alleged to have happened on 09.01.2014 is false as the location of the husband is not of the site of the incident and is somewhere else whereas the complainant in her complaint had categorically stated that husband was present at the time when the incident happened or at least commenced. CRL.REV.P. 615/2018  of 10 
Thus it is contended that the contents of the FIR are false and as such no charge should have been framed against any of the petitioners. 
Learned counsel for the petitioners relies on the judgments of the Supreme Court in Prashant Bharti vs State (NCT of Delhi ) 2013 (9) SCC 293 to contend that if material relied on by the accused is sound, reasonable and indubitable, then same can be relied on while considering framing of charge. 
Reliance is also placed on the judgment of the Supreme Court in Rajeevan And Anr. vs State Of Kerala , (2003) 3 SCC 355 to contend that if there is delay in registering an FIR the same could be fatal to the prosecution. 
Further reliance is placed on the judgment of the Supreme court in E. Sivakumar v. Union of India , (2018) 7 SCC 365 and Babubhai vs State Of Gujarat &amp; Ors , (2010) 12 SCC 254 to contend that investigation into a criminal offence must be free from objectionable features or infirmities. 
Per contra, learned APP for the State as also learned counsel for the respondent/complainant contended that there are sufficient incriminating material had surfaced during investigation to substantiate the framing of charge against the petitioners under Section 354 / 354A / 354C / 498A / 323 IPC. It is contended that there is no inordinate delay in registering the FIR and delay has been sufficiently explained. 
Reliance is placed on the judgment of the Supreme Court in State of H.P vs Gian Chand (2001) 6 SCC 71 to contend that delay in lodging the FIR cannot be used as a ritualistic formula for doubting the prosecution CRL.REV.P. 615/2018  of 10 case and discarding the same solely on the ground of delay in lodging the first information report, if delay is explained to the satisfaction of the court. 
Further it is contended that the reliance placed by learned counsel for the petitioner on the call detail record is misplaced as the it is a question of trial as to whether the accused was present at the site or not. 
Learned counsel further submits that the call records are not sacrosanct in as much as it is not necessary that a person may be carrying his phone. There is always a possibility that the accused may be at a different location that his cell phone and it would be a question for trial. 
Further it is contended that the complainant in her statement to the police as well as in her 164 statement has very categorically stated about the commission of the offence and given detailed description s of the same. 
The Trial Court while framing charge in the impugned order has held as under:- &#34;By placing reliance on the said judicial observations, 1have come to an opinion that the complaint of complainant Geeta Khosla contains various allegations of cruelty related to demands of dowry against the accused persons. The complaint prima facie discloses commission of mental as well as physical cruelty on the complainant by her in laws. The complainant has narrated various instances when she was subjected to demands of dowry and when dowry was paid by her parents to the in laws. The complainant has narrated various incidents when her modesty was outraged by her father in law. She has stated that she was beaten up by her in laws while her stay in matrimonial house with a view to coerce her to bring more dowry from her parents. The complainant has also alleged in the complaint that her in laws had installed secret cameras in her room with a view to capture her in her, intimate moments so that she could have CRL.REV.P. 615/2018  of 10 been blackmailed with use of such footage. Though upon investigation, such video cameras could not be recovered, however, the complainant has stated in her complaint that she was made to watch such video footage by her in laws at one instance and this made her certain that her apprehensions were correct. Therefore, merely on the ground that no recovery could be made out, the accused cannot be discharged U/s. 354C IPC in the peculiar circumstances of this case. No grounds for discharge of the accused are made out. Charges be accordingly framed as follows:- 
U/s. 354 /354A/354C IPC against accused Shashi Kumar 
U/s. 498A/34 IPC r/w Section 3 / 4 Dowry Prohibition Act against all the accused. 
U/s. 323/34 IPC against all accused.&#34; 
The marriage between the parties was solemnized on 24.08.2013. Subject FIR has been registered on 21.05.2014. The allegation in the FIR are that the marriage between the parties was arranged through a matrimonial company and immediately after the marriage was agreed between the parties, demand of Rs. 2 crores was made by the petitioners which was agreed to by the father of the complainant. It is alleged that the roka ceremony was organized in a hotel by spending Rs.2 lakhs of rupees but the petitioners were not happy with the same and they insisted that ring ceremony should be organized in a better place. Keeping in view the future prospects of the complainant her father acceded to the demand and spent about Rs.6.5 lakhs at the ring ceremony. 
A demand was made by the husband for an Audi car at the time of the marriage, however, as he was a defaulter and not eligible for loan, a Mercedes car was given and approximately Rs.1.43 crores was spent on the CRL.REV.P. 615/2018  of 10 marriage. It is alleged that immediately on the entry of the complainant into the family, demands were made by the petitioners for money and jewellery. Further it is alleged that when the father of the complainant was hospitalized the husband had told the complainant that her father had agreed to pay Rs.50 lakhs, however, had not paid the said amount. 
Apart from the above, there are several allegations made by the complainant against the petitioners giving specific instances with dates where it is alleged that demands of different amounts of several lakhs was made by the petitioners and specific dates have been mentioned where it is alleged that amounts ranging from Rs.5 lakhs to Rs.7 lakhs was paid in cash to the petitioners. 
The FIR also notes that there are specific allegations against the father-in-law where he is alleged to have commented upon the physical appearance of the prosecutrix and stated that she should wear short clothes at home in his presence. It is alleged that when such instances were pointed to the mother-in-law and her husband they supported the father-in-law. Instances have also been cited with dates and time where it is alleged that the petitioners physically assaulted the complainant. Allegations have specifically been made against the father-in-law alleging that he would at instances touch her private parts and his such action was supported by the mother-in-law and her husband. 
It is alleged that the complainant found a CCTV camera installed in her bedroom hidden in a wall light. When this was pointed out to the mother-in-law she is alleged to have stated that this was installed to capture her videos in intimate moments which would be sold if their demands for CRL.REV.P. 615/2018  of 10 money was not fulfilled. Evidence in the form of photographs of the lampshade with CCTV camera installed in the bed room of the complainant had been supplied by the complainant to the IO. 
It is alleged that the prosecutrix was made to watch a video containing intimate scenes in the presence of the father-in-law and mother- in-law. It is alleged that while a video was being played the mother-in-law left the room and locked the door from outside and the father-in-law is thereafter alleged to have touched her private parts by inserting his hand in her lower. Other instances have also been cited by the prosecutrix in her complaint to the police. 
The instance when the father-in-law is alleged to have touched her private parts is of 21.04.2014. The subject complaint has been lodged on 
05.2014. In her subsequent statement recorded under Section 164 Cr.P.C with regard to the incident of 21.04.2014 it is alleged that father-in-law had touched her private parts over her lower. Allegation as recorded in the FIR that he had inserted his hand inside her lower was not substantiated in the 164 Cr.P.C statement wherein the prosecutrix had stated that he had touched her private parts from above her clothes, no offence under Section 376 was made out and accordingly charge for the same has not been framed. 
Perusal of the record shows that there are specific allegations giving detailed instances of harassment, demands for dowry and of payment made by the complainant and her family to the petitioners and as such there is no infirmity in the view formed by the Trial Court that the complaint prima CRL.REV.P. 615/2018  of 10 facie discloses commission of mental as well as physical cruelty on the complainant by her in-laws. 
The Trial Court has rightly noticed that complainant has narrated instances with specifics when she was subjected to demands for dowry and when dowry was paid by her parents to the in-laws. Complainant has also narrated various instances where allegedly her modesty was outraged by her father-in-law. Instance of beatings have also been cited by the complainant to coerce her to bring dowry from her parents. The instances and specifics narrated by the complainant raise grave suspicion of the petitioners having committed the offence for which they have been charged by the Trial Court. 
Reliance placed by learned counsel for the petitioners on the judgment in the case of Prashant Bharti vs State (NCT of Delhi ) (supra) is misplaced. In the said case Supreme Court noticed that the material relied on by the accused ruled out the assertions contained in the charges leveled against the accused and as such Supreme Court was of the view that such a material which was of sterling and impeccable quality could form the basis of quashing of criminal proceedings. 
In the instant case the petitioners have sought to drill holes in the prosecution story, however, unsuccessfully. There is no counter material/evidence to show that the allegations made by the prosecutrix are false or unreliable for the purposes of framing of a charge. There is no material which is produced by the petitioners which could be stated to be sound, reasonable or of sterling and impeccable quality. CRL.REV.P. 615/2018  of 10 
Further reliance placed by learned counsel for the petitioners on the judgment in Rajeevan And Anr. vs State Of Kerala, (Supra) to contend that delay in registering a FIR could be fatal is also misplaced. Delay may have a bearing on the veracity of the allegations but that has to be tested by the Trial Court at trial. In the said case Supreme Court was considering a case which was arising out of an appeal after trial and not a case of framing of charge. 
In the facts of the present case Whether there is delay in registering the FIR and whether that has been explained or not or is fatal to the prosecution is something which the Trial Court would test at trial. No doubt gross and inordinate delay in making a complaint could be one of the factors which could have a bearing on framing of charge, however, in the instant case there is no inordinate delay. 
As noticed above, the marriage between the parties took place on 
08.2013 and subject FIR has been registered on 21.05.2014. The prosecutrix has given date wise instances of the treatment which was meted out to her. The last incident of assault by father-in-law is alleged to be of 
04.2014 i.e. one month before the registration of the FIR. The complainant has sought to explain the same by contending that keeping in view the relations between the parties she did not inform anyone of the incident, however, after about a month she narrated the incident to her parents and consequently the complaint was made. 
In any eventuality whether there is an inordinate delay or delay is fatal is something which would be tested at trial. At this stage in the facts of the present case it cannot be a case for discharge. CRL.REV.P. 615/2018  of 10 
Judgments relied on by learned counsel for the petitioners in E. Sivakumar v. Union of India and Babubhai vs State Of Gujarat &amp; Ors (Supra) to contend that investigation must be free and fair do not help the case of the petitioners in as much as there is no material produced to show that investigation was one sided or unfair. 
In so far as reliance on call records are concerned as noticed above, it is an issue of trial and cannot form the basis of a discharge in the facts of the present case. 
In view of the above, I find no infirmity in the view taken by the Trial Court and the charge framed against the petitioners. 
The petition has no merit and is accordingly dismissed. 
Order Dasti under signatures of Court Master. SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J th February 14 , 2019 rk CRL.REV.P. 615/2018  of 10 State (Govt. Of Nct Of Delhi) vs Ajit Soni on 2 April, 2019

State has filed this revision impugning order dated 07.12.2016 whereby the respondent has been discharged of the offence under Section 376 of the IPC. 
FIR was registered consequent to the directions being issued under Section 156 (3) Cr. P.C. on a complaint filed by the prosecutrix/respondent. 
The allegations in the FIR are that prosecutrix was known to the respondent/accused. Prosecutrix had kept a gold chain with the respondent/accused who is a jeweller. It is contended that her husband had died in the year 2005 and in 2006 she had gone to the respondent to take back her chain when she informed the respondent that her husband had CRL.REV.P 484/2017  of 7 expired. 
It is alleged that he stated that he would take care of her and her child. She, however, objected stating that he was married to which respondent is alleged to have stated that he would take care of everything. It is alleged that one day, he took her in his car and forcefully made physical relationship with her. The car was alleged to be a Santro Car having tinted classes. It is alleged that thereafter also he made physical relations with her several times. 
As per the complaint, the respondent had taken money from her and she even took loan from others to give to the respondent. He had assured to return the money. However, he did not return the same. He forcefully took her signatures on some blank papers and forcefully transferred her plot in his name. Further it is alleged that all her salary was taken by him and he even took blank cheques from her containing signatures. It is alleged that he had used the blank cheques and filed a complaint against her under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act. 
Trial court, by the impugned order, noticed the contention of the respondent/accused that he had been falsely implicated and further that there was substantial delay in lodging the complaint, in as much as, the alleged forceful act was alleged to have taken place in or around 2006 and the complaint was lodged for the first time in the year 2013. Further, the trial court noticed the contention that the complaint was a counter-blast to the complaint filed by the respondent under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act against the prosecutrix and also against her brother who had allegedly purchased jewellery items on credit and issued cheques. CRL.REV.P 484/2017  of 7 
The case of the respondent was that prosecutrix had taken a loan of Rs. 12.5 lakhs from him and in discharge thereof issued a cheque which had got dishonoured, leading to filing of the complaint under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act. As a counter-blast to the complaints filed by the respondent against the prosecutrix and also against her brother, he was implicated in this false case. 
Trial Court, on going through the material collected during investigation, found that there was no medical evidence to corroborate the version of the prosecutrix and no complaint had been lodged by the prosecutrix till 28.01.2013; though she had alleged that she was raped in the year 2006. 
Trial Court also noticed that in the complaint she had alleged that she was raped from the year 2006 till April, 2012 whereas when she was produced for her medical examination, she contended that she has been raped from year 2006 to 2010. No specific allegations with regard to the alleged offence had been mentioned by the prosecutrix. 
Trial court on perusal of the record was of the view that the material placed on record did not give rise to grave suspicion against the respondent/accused for framing of charge under Section 376 IPC. Accordingly, by the impugned order respondent was discharged. 
For the purposes of completeness, the allegations, as contained in the FIR are extracted hereunder: 
***** ***** ***** CRL.REV.P 484/2017  of 7 
That the accused above named Shri Ajeet Soni running a jewellery shop in the Najafgarh area. 
That the complainant was from time to time visiting the shop of the accused with her husband for purchase of jewellery. 
That in the year 2005, the husband of the complainant died and he was working in Indian Army. 
That at about four years ago, the complainant went to the shop of the accused for purchase of ear ring and on that day, the accused came to know about the death of her husband. 
That during this period, the accused came to contact with the complainant and developed the friendly relation with the complainant and from time to time all the complainant in his shop and when she objected, the accused replied the complainant that no will tell you anything. 
That as and when the accused called the complainant in his shop, they talked with the complainant in a very vulgar language and the accused also all the times tried to talk about the children of the complainant. 
That the complainant has trust the behaviour of the accused and also more than the gods. 
That the accused developed the physical relationship with the complainant and the accused used to rape the accused in his car because the glass of the car is covered with black film. The accused regularly with threating the complainant raped from the year 2006 to till April, 2012. 
That the accused know that no one remain to look after the complainant. The complainant told all family history to the accused. 
That during this period, the accused kept all the relevant papers of the properties of the complainant in his CRL.REV.P 484/2017  of 7 custody. In the year 2011, that the complainant purchased a scooty and the accused accompanied the complainant and purchased the scooty in his wife name namely Seema Soni and after passing of four months, he sold the scooty to someone else with the pretext that the complainant need a some money urgently. 
That the complainant understood that the accused person tried to mislead the complainant with the false pretext and misuse her body and property. As and when the complainant did not turn up after the phone call from the accused, the accused himself visited the house of the complainant and the complainant due to fear of her child and the social stigma did not resisted and hand over her body to the accused. 
That the complainant fulfilled all the demands, demanded by the accused due to fear of her child and social stigma. 
That the accused taken a signed blank cheques, pass books and all relevant documents relating to the properties and taken a signature of the complainant on some blank papers. 
That the accused filed a complaint under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act against the complainant with the using cheque received by accused. 
That in such a manner the accused has committed fraud with the complainant by receiving the blank signed cheques, original documents of properties and blank signed copy of the stamp papers. The accused also raped the complainant with false pretext and threating to the complainant with dire consequences and hence the accused is liable to be punished in accordance with law.&#34; 
Perusal of the allegations show that the allegations are very vague and complainant/prosecutrix has not given any specific details about the CRL.REV.P 484/2017  of 7 alleged offence. There is a bald statement that one day the respondent had forcefully made relations with her in a car. Thereafter he had continued to rape her from year 2006 to 2012. The allegations against the respondent as is evident from the FIR as well as her statement recorded under Section 164 Cr. P.C. are vague and the said allegations have also not been corroborated by any material on record including the medical report. 
As per the prosecutrix, admittedly there is a prior complaint filed by the respondent against her under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act for dishonour of a cheque issued in favour of the respondent. The prosecutrix has also not been able to render any explanation as to why she did not make a complaint immediately after the offence was committed upon her in the year 2006. Rather the statement given by the prosecutrix indicates that the respondent had assured that he would take care of her and her child. In her statement recorded under Section 164 Cr. P.C., the only averment is that one day in his car he had made forceful relations with her and thereafter also he had forcibly raped her. 
As noticed above, there are no specific details provided by the prosecutrix either in her statement given to the police or in the statement given under Section 164 Cr. P.C. 
The finding returned by the trial court that the material placed before the Court does not disclose grave suspicion against the accused for framing of a charge against him for committing the offence punishable under Section 376 of the IPC, does not appear to be perverse or misplaced. 
Perusal of the records as well as the statements show that the CRL.REV.P 484/2017  of 7 allegations are completely vague and bereft of any details, further the material placed on record does not give rise to grave suspicion against the respondent of having committing the offence under Section 376 of the IPC. 
In view of the above, I find no infirmity in the impugned order dated 07.12.2016. There is no merit in the petition. The petition is accordingly dismissed. 
Order Dasti under signatures of Court Master. APRIL 02, 2019 SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J &#39;rs&#39; CRL.REV.P 484/2017  of 7 Ajeet Kumar vs State Of Nct Of Delhi on 15 March, 2019

Petitioner impugns order dated 15.03.2017 whereby the charge has been framed against the petitioner under Section 498-A / 304-B / 34 of the IPC. 
Petitioner was the husband of the deceased and was married to the deceased on 25.06.2012. A child was born from the wedlock on 
07.2013. On 26.06.2016, the wife is alleged to have committed suicide. 
On the complaint of the father of the deceased, the subject FIR No. 606/2016 was registered under Sections 498A / 304B / 34 of the IPC. Crl.Rev.P.649/2017  of 8 
It is alleged in the FIR that the mother-in-law of the deceased was not happy with her and she did not want the petitioner to reside with her. It is alleged that after one year of residing in the matrimonial home in the village, petitioner along with deceased shifted to Delhi. It is averred in the FIR that the deceased used to talk to her mother but she never complained about any problem and the only complaint that she had made to the complainant was that some time her husband i.e. petitioner would not talk to her. 
It is stated that the petitioner never beat her. It is stated in the FIR that neither the petitioner nor his family ever demanded dowry. They used to harass her only because they did not like the deceased. It is alleged that when the deceased was unwell and her brother had gone to meet her, she complained that her husband and his brother would not give her money for treatment. Subsequently, the deceased committed suicide on 26.06.2016. 
During investigation the statement of the mother of the deceased was also recorded and she in her statement to the Investigating Officer, alleged that the petitioner and his family would not take care of the deceased and were not getting her treated for her illness. 
Charge sheet was filed after investigation only against the husband i.e. petitioner. 
The trial court by the impugned order and on perusal of the Crl.Rev.P.649/2017  of 8 material on record, held that death of the deceased was an unnatural death which occurred within seven years of marriage and there are clear-cut and specific allegations made by the parents of the deceased and as such the trial court was of the view that charge under Section 498-A / 304-B of the IPC was liable to be framed. 
Learned counsel for the petitioner contends that the trial court has erred in framing a charge against the petitioner and has solely gone on presumption. Learned counsel submits that perusal of the record shows that the parents of the deceased have categorically stated that there was never any demand for dowry or harassment on the ground of dowry of the deceased. 
Learned counsel further contends that the statement of the family of the deceased is that the in-laws of the deceased did not like her and the petitioner would not permit her to buy things that she wanted or give her money for her treatment and that the petitioner never used to listen to her. Learned counsel submits that the ingredients of Sections 498-A and 304-B of the IPC are not made out. 
In the impugned order, the trial court has recorded as under: - &#34;I have given my thoughtful consideration to the respective rival submissions made before me and I find substance in the contention of Ld. Addl. PP that in the present set of circumstances where the death of the deceased took place within the period of seven years from the date of her marriage with accused and further the death of accused was an unnatural death and in the statements of prosecution witnesses i.e. Gopal Prasad Crl.Rev.P.649/2017  of 8 Singh, Smt. Madhuri Singh and Anshuman there are specific and clear allegations regarding harassment and demand of dowry, so there are sufficient prima facie material on record for framing of charge u/s 498 A/304 B/34 IPC . Charge u/s 498A/304B/34 IPC be framed, accordingly against accused.&#34; 
Perusal of the record shows that the observation of the trial court that in the statement of the prosecution witnesses i.e. parents and the brother of the deceased there are specific and clear-cut allegations regarding harassment and demand of dowry is not borne out from the record. 
On the contrary, father of the deceased has categorically stated that there was never any demand for dowry from the deceased or any harassment on account of dowry. The mother of the deceased in her statement has stated that the in-laws were taking care of the deceased but there was nobody in her house to take care of her in the hospital when she was pregnant. She had stated that the deceased had complained to her that nobody in the petitioner&#39;s house would give any importance to what she had to say. 
Father of the deceased has also filed a reply-cum-written submissions in these proceedings stating that he had never deposed before the Investigating Officer that there were any demands for dowry made by the petitioner, rather he had specifically stated that no demand for dowry was made. Further, it is contended that the Crl.Rev.P.649/2017  of 8 deceased had been residing in her parental house at Bihar for almost two to two and a half years and she had gone to Delhi in January, 2016 and during the period that she was staying at her parents&#39; house in Bihar, petitioner had been taking care of her maintenance and had been regularly sending money to her bank account maintained with State Bank of India. 
Trial court in the impugned order has solely relied on the statutory presumption of unnatural death within 7 years of marriage, without noticing that apart from statutory presumption other ingredients of the sections have also to be satisfied. 
 Section 498-A of the IPC reads as under: - &#34; Section 498A . Husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty.-- Whoever, being the husband or the relative of the husband of a woman, subjects such woman to cruelty shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine. Explanation.--For the purpose of this section, &#34;cruelty&#34; means-- (a) any wilful conduct which is of such a nature as is likely to drive the woman to commit suicide or to cause grave injury or danger to life, limb or health (whether mental or physical) of the woman; or (b) harassment of the woman where such harassment is with a view to coercing her or any person related to her to meet any unlawful demand for any property or valuable security or is on Crl.Rev.P.649/2017  of 8 account of failure by her or any person related to her to meet such demand.&#34; 
 Section 304-B of the IPC reads as under: - &#34;304B - Dowry death.-- (1) Where the death of a woman is caused by any burns or bodily injury or occurs otherwise than under normal circumstances within seven years of her marriage and it is shown that soon before her death she was subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband or any relative of her husband for, or in connection with, any demand for dowry, such death shall be called &#34;dowry death&#34;, and such husband or relative shall be deemed to have caused her death. Explanation.--For the purpose of this sub-section, &#34;dowry&#34; shall have the same meaning as in section 2 of the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961 (28 of 1961). (2) Whoever commits dowry death shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than seven years but which may extend to imprisonment for life.&#34; 
 Section 498-A IPC makes treating a woman with cruelty punishable. Cruelty has been defined as a wilful conduct which is likely to cause the woman to commit suicide or to cause grave injury or danger to life and harassment with a view to coerce her or any person related to her to meet any unlawful demand for any property or valuable security. 
 Section 304-B of the IPC stipulates that where a death of a woman occurs otherwise than under normal circumstances within seven years of marriage and it is shown that soon before her death she Crl.Rev.P.649/2017  of 8 was subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband or any relative of her husband for, or in connection with, any demand for dowry, such death shall be called &#34;dowry death&#34;, and such husband or relative shall be deemed to have caused her death 
Prior to the deeming fiction under Section 304-B IPC coming into play, two things have to be established by the prosecution; i.e. (i) death has occurred otherwise than under normal circumstances within seven years of marriage and; (ii) soon before her death, the deceased was subject to cruelty or harassment in connection with demand for dowry. 
In the subject case, the trial court has invoked statutory presumption solely on the ground that death has occurred otherwise than under normal circumstances within 7 years of marriage. The trial court has erred in not appreciating that the basic ingredient of harassment or demand for or in relation to dowry is absent in the present case. Requirement of both Sections 304-B and 498-A is harassment or demand for dowry. In the present case, categorical statement of the father of the deceased is that there were no demands for dowry. The mother and the brother of the deceased have also not stated that there was any ever demand for dowry. Rather the statement is that the petitioner used to maintain the deceased and deposit money in her account even when she was staying at her parents&#39; house for 2 - 2-½ years. 
The allegations are that the deceased was not liked by the Crl.Rev.P.649/2017  of 8 family of the petitioner, they would not take care of her, she was not given money to purchase things she liked and petitioner would not talk to her some times. These allegations would not satisfy the requirements of section 498A or 304B. Firstly, no specifics have been given and secondly there is categorical assertion that the deceased was never beaten or harassed for dowry. Perusal of the record does not show that there is any allegation of harassment for or in connection with demand for dowry rather statements of the family of the deceased are to the contrary. 
On perusal of the record, I am of the view that the prerequisite for framing of charge i.e. grave suspicion that the accused is likely to have committed the offence is absent in the present case. 
In view of the above, impugned order framing charge under Section 498-A / 304-B / 34 of the IPC against the petitioner cannot be sustained. The impugned order dated 15.03.2017 is accordingly set aside. The petitioner is discharged of all offences. The petition is allowed in the above terms. 
Order Dasti under the signatures of Court Master. MARCH 15, 2019/&#39;rs&#39; SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J Crl.Rev.P.649/2017  of 8 Mr. Maqsood Ahmad Khan vs State on 22 November, 2019

Allowed, subject to all just exceptions. 
This application is, accordingly, disposed of. BAIL APPLN. 2906/2019 
The present application is filed under Section 438 Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 ( Cr.P.C .) for grant of anticipatory bail. 
The admitted facts of the present case are that in the aforesaid FIR, BAIL APPLN. 2903/2019  of 5 the charge-sheet was filed without arresting the petitioner. The summons were served one day prior to the date of hearing which was fixed as 
10.2019 and on the said date, application for exemption was filed which was opposed and declined by the learned Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (&#39;ACMM&#39;) and NBW was issued against the petitioner. Since in the FIR Section 376 IPC was added, the petitioner had moved an application for anticipatory bail which was kept pending for hearing on 01.11.2019. On the said date, the petitioner moved an application for staying the NBWs issued against the petitioner till the disposal of the anticipatory bail, however, same was dismissed on 01.11.2019 and the application for anticipatory bail was also declined by the court of learned Additional Sessions Judge, Tis Hazari Courts, Delhi. 
Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner submits that on the same day i.e. 01.11.2019 finding absence of the petitioner, the learned Trial Court did not further issue NBWs against the petitioner because the case file was with the Sessions Court and the next date of hearing was fixed for 14.11.2019. On the said date, finding absence of the petitioner, the learned Trial Court had issued NBWs against the petitioner. 
Thereafter, the petitioner preferred to file the anticipatory bail before BAIL APPLN. 2903/2019  of 5 this Court which was listed for 15.11.2019, however, the same was withdrawn with liberty to file afresh. 
Learned counsel further submits that the petitioner had apprehension of his arrest in consequence of the NBWs issued against him as the petitioner wanted to appear before the Trial Court bonafidely to prove his defence that the allegation and the story in the FIR is totally false, fabricated, frivolous, concocted and with a view to extort money from the petitioner to settle the matter with the petitioner of the previous FIR bearing no. 456/2018 lodged against the minor son of petitioner. 
He further submits that originally, the abovementioned FIR was registered on the false and frivolous allegations of the complainant, wherein she has alleged that she had previously lodged FIR No. 0456/18 under Sections 376 / 506 IPC and Section 6 of POCSO Act, registered against one Faizan Ahmed (who is minor son of the present petitioner). It is alleged by the complainant in present case/FIR that on 18.02.2019 at 7.00 PM, the petitioner along with his nephew Maqsood Ahmad, on seeing the complainant, started raising vulgar and obscene instigations towards her. Whenever she comes out of the house, he always follow her and shows his private parts and also says to the complainant to give statement in his favour BAIL APPLN. 2903/2019  of 5 in the court, otherwise the complainant would be killed and the case will be closed of its own. 
It is further alleged by the complainant that on 17.02.2019, in the morning at about 7.15 AM, when she was going downstairs, the petitioner covered/closed her face and touched her private parts of body with oblique intentions and stated, she should accompany him for having physical relations with him. 
Learned counsel for petitioner submits that with these allegations, the complainant got her complaint lodged with the police, apprehending acid attack on her at any point of time and as such, she made complaint against the petitioner and Maqsood Ahmad. 
Learned prosecutor appeared on behalf of the State alongwith Mr. Muntazir Mehendi, learned counsel for the complainant admitted that the charge sheet was filed without arrest of the petitioner. Thereafter, he appeared in Court. However, the date on which he did not appear, NBWs were issued against him. He filed an application for recalling of NBWs, which had also been dismissed. However, instead of challenging the dismissal order, the petitioner has filed application under Section 482 Cr.P.C. seeking anticipatory bail. BAIL APPLN. 2903/2019  of 5 
As submitted by the learned counsel for petitioner that after issuing NBWs, he had apprehension that the Court may take him into custody, he moved an application for recalling of the NBWs, however, the same had been rejected. The charge sheet was filed without arrest of the petitioner and on one date, when he could not appear for which he moved an application for exemption, but the application was rejected and NBWs issued. 
In view of the above facts and circumstances, I am of the view that justice would be met if order of NBWs is set aside. Accordingly, I hereby set aside the impugned order and direct the learned Trial Court to admit the petitioner on bail on furnishing personal bond in the sum of ₹25,000/- with one surety of the like amount to its satisfaction. 
The petition is accordingly allowed and disposed of.Kuldeep Singh vs State Of Nct Of Delhi on 23 May, 2019

Petitioner impugns order on charge dated 19.04.2016 whereby charge has been framed against the petitioner under Section 412 IPC in FIR No.378/2014 under Section 395 / 394 / 397 / 342 / 412 / 506 / 201 / 34 / 120-B IPC, P.S.Lahori Gate. 
On 09.12.2014 a PCR call was received regarding a robbery. When the police party reached the spot, complaint was lodged by owner of the that he is a trader in dry fruits and he along with his nephew were sitting in the office of the shop and his employees were working in the adjoining room. CRL.REV.P.740/2016  of 5 
At about 6 in the evening, one boy entered the office and took out a country made pistol and threatened them. Thereafter three more boys they were carrying country made pistol and knives. 
Thereafter it is alleged that they took away approximately Rs.1,15,00,000/-. In a subsequent statement it is alleged that Rs.1.4 crores were stolen. 
Subsequently four boys who had committed the robbery were arrested. One of the co accused Subhash in his alleged disclosure statement is alleged to have stated that he had got a share of Rs.21.5 lakhs out of which Rs.10 lakhs were kept in the safe custody of the present petitioner. When the investigating party reached the petitioner, he is alleged to have confessed that a sum of Rs.10 lakhs had been kept by Subhash with him and promptly handed over the same to the investigating team. The petitioner is alleged to have stated that he kept the money on the representation of Subhash that he had received the cash from sale of a property and that he was not aware that the said money was involved in any robbery. 
In the charge sheet filed by the prosecution, Petitioner was cited as a prosecution witness, however, at the time of hearing on charge, Trial Court was of the view that charge was required to be framed against the petitioner under Section 412 IPC as he was found in possession of Rs.10 lakhs out of the stolen property. 
Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that charge framed CRL.REV.P.740/2016  of 5 against the petitioner is not sustainable in as much as the petitioner was initially cited as a witness by the prosecution in the charge sheet and subsequently the Court summoned him to face trial and thereafter without complying with the mandatory provisions of Section 207 Cr.P.C., charge was framed against him. 
Further it is contended that petitioner has been roped in solely on the basis of a disclosure statement and there is nothing to suggest that petitioner was aware that the money which was kept with him by the co-accused was involved in the commission of dacoity. 
 Section 412 IPC reads as under:- &#34;412. Dishonestly receiving property stolen in the commission of a dacoity.--Whoever dishonestly receives or retains any stolen property, the possession whereof he knows or has reason to believe to have been transferred by the commission of dacoity, or dishonestly receives from a person, whom he knows or has reason to believe to belong or to have belonged to a gang of dacoits, property which he knows or has reason to believe to have been stolen, shall be punished with imprisonment for life, or with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.&#34; (underlining supplied) 
For constituting an offence under Section 412 IPC, it is not merely receipt of a stolen property, which is required but also the knowledge or reason to believe that the property so received has been transferred by commission of a dacoity. CRL.REV.P.740/2016  of 5 
Charge sheet records that co-accused Subhash, who had kept the money with the petitioner, in his disclosure statement stated that he had kept the money with the petitioner by telling him that he obtained the money by selling his house and had given him the money for keeping in safe custody. This was also so stated by Kuldeep at the time when the raiding party had raided his house pursuant to the alleged disclosure statement of Subhash. 
The prosecution while filing the charge sheet also cited petitioner as a witness. On perusal of the record, it is clear that there is no material on record to suggest that petitioner either had knowledge or has reason to believe that the amount of Rs.10 lakhs, that was kept by the co-accused with him was involved in the subject offence or had been received by the co accused by commission of dacoity or that he had knowledge or reason to believe that Subhash belonged to a gang of dacoits or further he had known or had reason to believe that said amount was stolen. 
Since there is no material to show the requisite mens rea as is required under Section 412 IPC, petitioner could not have been charged under Section 412 IPC. 
Further the prosecution, in my view, had correctly cited him only as a witness and not as an accused or a suspect in the subject offence. Consequently, the charge framed against the petitioner under Section 412 IPC is not sustainable. CRL.REV.P.740/2016  of 5 
Since on merits this Court has found that petitioner is not liable to be charged under Section 412 IPC, the question raised by learned counsel for the petitioner that he was summoned as a witness and without complying with the mandatory provisions of Section 207 Cr.P.C charge was framed against the petitioner and thus is liable to be quashed, is not being gone into and is left open. 
The petition is accordingly allowed in the above terms. 
Interim order dated 12.10.2017 is vacated. 
Order Dasti under signatures of the Court Master. MAY 23 2019 SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J rk CRL.REV.P.740/2016  of 5 Sh. Pramod Kumar Yadav vs State &amp; Anr. on 7 February, 2019

Petitioner impugns judgment dated 16.05.2018 of the appellate court whereby the appeal of the petitioner impugning judgment on conviction dated 25.07.2017 and order on sentence dated 27.07.2017 was dismissed. 
Petitioner has been convicted of offence under sections 279 / 338 / 304-A IPC of the Indian Penal Code, 1860. 
Petitioner has been sentenced to undergo Rigorous CRL.REV.P 1134/2018  of 5 Imprisonment for a period of six months along with fine of Rs. 1,000/- for the offences punishable under Sections 279 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and Rigorous Imprisonment for a period of six months along with a fine of Rs. 5000/- for the offence punishable under Section 338 of Indian Penal Code, 1860 and Rigorous Imprisonment for a period of two years along with fine of Rs. 5000/- for the offence punishable under Section 304-A Indian Penal Code, 1860 and to further undergo imprisonment for a period of three months in default of payment of fine. 
In the appeal, the appellate court modified the order on sentence partially and deleted the fine of Rs. 1,000/- each for the offences under Sections 279 / 338 Indian Penal Code, 1860 and fine of Rs. 5,000/- for the offence under Section 304A Indian Penal Code, 1860 and directed the petitioner to pay a compensation of Rs. 50,000/- to the family of the deceased Neha and Rs. 10,000/- to the injured Rinki. 
The case against the petitioner is that while he was driving a truck he hit a bicycle which was being ridden by PW-2 along with three children. It is alleged that the petitioner was driving the truck in a rash and negligent manner and accordingly hit the bicycle at a high speed from behind. The deceased came under the rear tyre of the truck and one other child also sustained injuries. 
The father of the deceased Neha and injured Rinki (PW1) deposed regarding the accident caused by the appellant. The testimony CRL.REV.P 1134/2018  of 5 of PW-1 was corroborated by the statement of PW-2 who was produced as prosecution eye witness. It was further observed that the owner of the subject truck (PW-4) deposed in his testimony that the truck on the date of the incident was driven by the appellant. 
Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the trial court as well as appellate court erred in not appreciating that there was no evidence to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the petitioner was driving the truck in rash and negligent manner. Learned counsel further submits that the only testimony with regard to manner of driving the truck was the statement of PW-2. He submits that since PW-2 was riding the bicycle and has is alleged to have been hit from behind, he could not have seen the speed or manner in which the petitioner was driving the truck. 
Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner is the sole bread earner in the family and has already undergone one year of sentence out of the two years sentence awarded. He further submits that petitioner has five school going children, besides wife and old aged parents to take care of and because of his incarceration, his entire family is suffering. 
Learned counsel further submits that since the date of the accident till date the petitioner has not been involved in any other case of rash and negligent driving and has clean antecedents. CRL.REV.P 1134/2018  of 5 
I have perused the record of the trial court as well as the appellate court. Further as per the nominal roll the appellant has undergone 9 months and 3 days of imprisonment and earned remission of 2 months and 27 days and thereafter 3 more days have passed. 
Keeping in view the totality of the facts and circumstances as also the evidence on record and the fact that the petitioner is sole bread earner of the family and has already undergone half of the sentence, I am of the view that it would be in the interest of justice if the conviction of the petitioner is sustained, but, the sentence of the petitioner is reduced to the period undergone. 
Learned counsel for the petitioner concedes that the compensation amount has not yet been paid. 
Since the petitioner has not paid the compensation amount in terms of order dated 16.05.2018 and nearly 9 months have passed, I am of the view that interest of justice would further require slight enhancement in the compensation amount. 
Accordingly, it is directed that the petitioner shall pay a sum of Rs. 65,000/- to the family of the deceased - Neha and a sum of Rs. 15,000/- to the injured Rinki. 
In view of the above, on petitioner&#39;s depositing the said amount of Rs. 80,000/- as mentioned above, petitioner be released forthwith, CRL.REV.P 1134/2018  of 5 if not required in another case. Superintendent (Jail) is directed to ensure, prior to release of the petitioner, that petitioner has deposited said amount with the trial court and furnished the proof of the deposit of the said amount to the Superintendent (Jail). 
On receipt of the compensation amount, trial court is directed to disburse the same to the family of the deceased - Neha as well as to the injured - Rinki as expeditiously as possible. 
The petition is disposed of in the above terms. Copy of the order be communicated to the Superintendent (Jail) for compliance. 
Order dasti under signatures of the Court Master. FEBRUARY 07, 2019 SANJEEV SACHDEVA, J &#39;rs&#39; CRL.REV.P 1134/2018  of 5 