 
The petitioner/wife has challenged the order dated July 7, 2014 passed by learned Judicial Magistrate, 3rd Court, Barrackpore in Miscellaneous Case no.769 of 2013, by which learned Magistrate directed the opposite party/husband to pay interim maintenance at the rate of Rs.8,000/- per month to the petitioner/wife within 26th day of next succeeding month till the disposal of the maintenance proceeding.

Mr. Ayan Bhattacharjee, learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the amount of interim maintenance is inadequate as the monthly income of the husband is about Rs.1,19,976/-. He further submits that the petitioner/wife is persuading her studies of MBBS and as such the amount of interim maintenance may be increased.

None appears on behalf of the opposite party/husband in spite of service of notice and copy of the application as reflected from the affidavit of service filed on behalf of the petitioner.

It appears from the impugned order under challenge in the revision that the petitioner/wife claimed interim maintenance at the rate of Rs.30,000/- per month on the ground that her husband earns Rs.90,000/- per month as Assistant Professor of Indian Institute of Science Education Research, Calcutta and that the petitioner/wife has no independent income and she has been compelled to live separately. On consideration of social and financial status of the parties to the proceeding and the income of the husband, I am of the view that the amount of interim maintenance should be increased from Rs.8,000/- per month to Rs.10,000/- per month till the disposal of the maintenance proceeding.

Accordingly, the order dated July 7, 2014 passed by learned Judicial Magistrate, 3rd Court, Barrackpore in Miscellaneous Case no.769 of 2013 is modified to the extent that the opposite party/husband is directed to pay interim maintenance to the petitioner/wife at the rate of Rs.10,000/- per month with effect from the date of the order, that is July 7, 2014 and the opposite party/husband is directed to pay current interim maintenance of each month within 10th day of next succeeding month and he is further directed to pay the entire arrears of maintenance calculated at the above rate in favour of the petitioner/wife within July 31, 2016.

With the above direction, criminal revision is disposed of.

Let a copy of this order be sent down to the learned court below for favour of information and necessary action.

Urgent photostat certified copy of this order, if applied for, be given to the learned counsel for the parties upon compliance of all formalities.
